Many people view Hakeem Olajuwon's two championships in the middle of the 90s as a kind of interim title belt on rent. Michael Jordan swung away at curveballs. Maybe Hakeem should have been in the best player conversation before Jordan retired. His dazzling scoring repertoire unlocks something special in the playoffs.

His incredible defense made him one of the very best players of the three-point era. You are watching what greatness is all about.

Where's Larry Bird in all this? It has it blocked by Elijah. Michael Jordan saves the day this series. One question, who was the best at his best?

We start at the ABA merger and go through the best multi-year stretches. We examine the legends who provided the most on-court impact. These are the greatest peaks.

I was playing other sports, soccer, volleyball, Philadelphia.

I jumped more as an all-around athlete. The coach was telling me that basketball is my game. Hakeem's defensive highlights have the grandiosity of some NFL films montage. No one in NBA history recorded more block shots than Hakeem. Even though he was closer to 6'10 than a true seven feet.

His incredible combination of athleticism and timing made him feel like a very tall Oliver Kahn on the basketball court. This sequence epitomizes how impregnable he could be at the rim.

Scottie Pippen turns the corner with Dream pulled up top. Otis Thorpe has no chance against the explosive Pippen. When Chicago runs this with Hakeem as the low man, Elijahwan spits the dunk back in Scotty's face. Pippen has a runway and is above the square. He still goes and gets it. It's not any easier trying to glide around Hakeem. That long right hockey stick finds the basketball as he twists in the air. The first cornerstone of his shot-blocking brilliance was his accuracy. He targeted the ball with that domineering right hand. Notice the hand tracks with the path of the ball as it shoots. Even in his younger days, when he was slightly less polished, he was incredibly accurate targeting the rock.

Growing up as a handball player primed him to zero in on the ball like this. Hakeem didn't play basketball in Nigeria until he was about 16. It was really volleyball that groomed his jumping technique.

He'd patiently prepare to spring up and wait till the precise moment to commit to a shot. He holds until Sean Elliott's airborne, then spikes this thing. This is subtle and requires great reflexes. When Elijah moved around the paint, he was constantly ready to jump. This allowed him to attack after a shooter left his feet.

It's on display here. He slides over to contest, but when Elliott hesitates, Hakeem shuffles his feet into a new jumping position. He sends it back in his face. This is an incredible skill. It allows him to slide into position for a save, yet he doesn't jump. He controls his body and waits for the moment the shooter finally puts it up. He probably learned some of this playing his third major sport growing up, soccer. Fittingly, he played goalkeeper. This foreshadows his career as the NBA's all-time leader in blocks. Hakeem registered at least five blocks in 35 of his playoff games from 1986 to 1994. In those last two years, he had five in nearly half of his postseason contests.

When he was younger, he was more of an athletic force but still fairly raw. He picked up basketball at a late age. By 1990, his defensive techniques were more polished. He still had that whirlwind athleticism. His 1993 season blended some sage tricks with his incredible body control.

This was rare in someone his size. Hakeem learned to lurk closer to the ball than most big men of the illegal defense era. You see Joe Klein point here.

Elijahwon should be above the foul line. Dream was so quick to the ball, he was rarely called for these violations. With David Robinson at the top of the key, Hakeem loads to the ball at the edge of the legal boundary. His quick reaction time can erase a layup. This subtle positioning was especially valuable on the weak side. He was not glued to Robinson. He was always tracking the ball, ready to materialize at the rim. Poor Sean Elliott. Elijahwan's quick help was a nightmare for opponents. Opponents were reluctant to shoot when he went into fly-swating mode with that right hand. He tracked threats well.

He was quick to come into the lane and suffocate any attempt around the basket. When Hakeem went to the bench, opposing teams could finally breathe. Those high-percentage shots around the hoop felt much easier.

Back in the game, he swarmed to the ball. Even with his man up high, that response speed generated more high-leverage contests than any contemporary that I've tracked. He didn't get to every threat.

He pounces on this back cut, but it's a touch too late. Every once in a while, he missed a cutter coming through the lane. He was usually quick to rotate, plugging up gaps in the back line. By 1995, he was a bit slower. Sometimes he arrived late on save attempts from outside the paint. A slightly slower motor meant he wasn't itching to jump at everything on command. Hakeem's agility helped him defend the perimeter too. He was rarely ever attacked by wings on switches. They also didn't run as many pick and rolls in the 90s as they do today.

Coverages weren't as developed then.

He was still comfortable stepping out and taking on smaller players without too much of a price to pay. In this 1993 play, Hakeem realizes there's too much space between him and the ball. He closes it quickly.

He lingers near the lane to blow up another shot attempt. Here, he blitzes the ball handler to completely blow up the play. Maybe he's too overzealous hounding the dribbler into the backcourt. This fantastic mobility allowed him to erase weaknesses in these outdated ball screen coverages. He's really low and lunges at the ball from this crouch.

He slides back to contest. He's hugged up to Shaq on this pick and roll. That fluid footwork shifts him into position.

He can seamlessly transition from sliding to jumping. Preternatural timing stamps the layup. The culmination of Olajuwon's volleyball timing, soccer agility, and handball accuracy led to the most important block of his career. This Jon Stark shot is for the title. In 1994, Hakeem slams on the brakes. He recovers backwards and times this leap off the wrong foot to save the season.

This matrix recovery looks half impossible. He blocks it to force a seventh game that Houston would go on to win. This was in large part because of Olajuwon's offense.

His offense may have been even more gravity bending than his defense. I remember one time I gave him a bow.

He just laughed. Nice, nice, nice, elbow, brother.

Then he came out and gave me a bow. By Shaq means the Dream Shake. Hakeem's twirling array of head fakes and spins set up so many of his moves. His blend of size and balletic footwork made him a deadly isolation weapon.

These were skills he possessed early in his career. He drilled crazy fadeaway jumpers. He faked one way to freeze defenders. He spun for a jump hook. That agility and balance gave him an edge over most bigs of that time. Shot selection was an issue in those early days. He launched into triple teams at times. He fired deep jumpers early in the shot clock. By 1993, Hakeem's scoring game was more polished. His game was under control.

He carved out shots like some sort of basketball ballerina. All of his moves flowed together.

This made them so difficult to slow down.

A spin one way, then back the other.

Throwing up fake and then a hook. He could fake the hook to set up his fadeaway to the opposite shoulder. At around 250 pounds, he was able to pivot with power. He found clean shots in traffic.

Even double teams couldn't always stop his fadeaway. He could twist and contort into the shot comfortably. Dream could also face up from the perimeter. He could wheel his way into space.

Michael Jordan once called him a seven-foot guard. Hakeem's handle was secure enough to drive into open space. That quickness was a challenge for most opponents.

Opponents worked hard to keep up. They were juked right into highlightville. Big men still had to worry about his spin.

That is so nasty. Hakeem's pirouettes and dizzying pump fakes crescendoed in the 1995 Western Finals against David Robinson. Robinson was often left on an island to defend him. This invited Hakeem to shoot into that single coverage. This series wasn't actually that different from Olajuwon's normal scoring these years. There were a number of savage fadeaways.

Some were still really difficult and didn't always go in.

There was an assortment of drives, fakes, spins, and hook shots. A lack of double teams made life easier for Hakeem. He welcomed the chance to dance with Robinson. In an isolation game, Olajuwon is one of the few players who improved his scoring numbers in the playoffs. From 1993 to 95, he was just behind the all-time scoring juggernauts in volume while scoring on positive efficiency.

As a primary scorer, he compares favorably to other contemporary big men. The brilliance of Hakeem's shot-making was a double-edged sword. These moves were difficult for defenses to take away without hard double teams. They were hard shots to make. Most players manufacture easy points against weak defenses. They are forced into harder low-percentage shots against elite defenses. Hakeem's attempts were already difficult in the first place. He made a bunch of them. Stronger defenses couldn't really take away his scoring. He was already taking hard shots. This kind of resilient or inelastic scoring meant Elijahwan's numbers weren't dented much when he faced stiffer defenses. Other players were more affected. One way to limit Hakeem's scoring was by sending effective help that forced him into a pass. He was dangerous enough that defenses frequently doubled him.

This created plenty of outside shots for teammates. Elijahwan was not a natural passer. His instinct was to catch and immediately shift into a scoring move.

He jacked up so many wild shots when he was younger. In 1993, Hakeem said he finally grew comfortable trusting his teammates to knock down their open shots. Coach Rudy Tomjanovich implemented a more Elashawon-centric offense with shooters around Hakeem. He was more patient, allowing the defense to commit to a double team before making a decision.

This substantially helped his playmaking during these years. He punished defenses with basic passing instead of his own scoring. His balance and body control allowed him to flow from scoring dance steps into passes. This contrasts with Robinson in the last episode. Robinson could get locked up by hard doubles. Hakeem easily segued from a Dream Shake to a pass. This helps replace difficult shots with passes.

He misses a teammate in close but finds the open shooter. He feels the double misses a more advanced interior pass but kicks it calmly. Even in those years, Olajuwon took double-team shots. He left shooters stranded.

His instinct to just catch and immediately look to score was strong at his peak. A bigger weakness was a lack of vision. This looks like it's in his periphery, but he misses it. He rarely ever hit these kinds of passes. Some of this was a byproduct of playing with his back to the basket.

He did not turn and survey the court. Elijahwan did not map the floor or keep an eye on advantages. His primary focus was reading the double team.

Here, he spins away from it and loses track of his teammates. He could hit passes if he felt an extra defender on a drive. He had the athletic dexterity to drop dimes in those situations. Most of his passing was out of the post.

The results were mixed. Maximizing Hakeem's playmaking required shooters spaced around the three-point arc. This likely raised his offensive value in 1995. The NBA shortened the three-point line. Higher percentage shooters amplified Hakeem's playmaking. They charged more for double teams in the post. In 1995, the Rockets set a new NBA record for threes in a season. They made nearly eight per game at 37 percent. In the playoffs, they were closer to nine threes per game at 39 percent. The record they broke was held by the 1994 Rockets. They made five a game in the regular season. They made nearly seven at 36 percent in the playoffs. You'll never guess who held the playoff record before that. The 1993 Rockets made five per game at 37 percent. Some playoff percentages might be boosted by hot shooting. Playing inside-out was a viable way to construct an offense around Olajuwon. The results were good but not great.

The shortened line in 1995 made this more attainable. It doubled the number of legit 35 three-point shooters in the league overnight. Houston's offense wasn't great because of Hakeem's passing limitations. He didn't naturally look for extra passes.

It's unclear how he would fit next to another offensive star. He was a solid mid-range shooter.

This allowed him to play the pick-and-pop game effectively. Dream was nimble enough to move into some of these shots. Data on his long twos near the end of his career suggests he was fairly efficient from the outside. He wasn't as big and explosive as Robinson as a lob threat or downhill player. His agility made him a strong finisher. He was always a scoring threat as a role man.

He used his gracefulness to carve out finishes near the rim. Hakeem was also a fantastic offensive rebounder. Some of this is related to shot blocking.

He could move and jump in one motion. He constantly pursued the ball on misses. His jukes, shakes, and physical strength made him a pain to keep off the offensive glass. He was particularly dangerous sneaking in from the perimeter. He swam past two players to steal Shaq's board. The building blocks were there for Alajuwon to play an effective off-ball role. The question is how many post touches and hero-ball shots he was willing to forgo. His defensive prowess alone makes him interesting to build around.

He guarantees his team a passable defense.

With the right pieces, he can anchor an elite defense. Before Hakeem's defense started to slide in 1995, the first two Tomjanovich teams held opponents about four points below their regular-season efficiency. In the playoffs, that's around the 70th percentile historically. This is impressive for not fielding a defensively slanted team like Detroit's Bad Boys or the Twin Tower Spurs. Some impact stems from Hakeem's man-to-man defense. His shot-blocking instincts made shooting around him tricky. His agile feet kept quicker big men in front of him. His balance and timing gave post players trouble. This stood out in the 1994 Finals against Patrick Ewing. Ewing struggled to find clean shots when isolated against Olajuwon. He posted an unheard-of 39 true shooting in that seven-game series. Hakeem had incredible hands, probably from handball. One defensive trick was timing up a quick push flick once his man started dribbling.

Getting the ball to the post was a chore against him. He gobbled entry passes better than just about any center ever. He constantly repositioned into a slight overplay to take away the passing angle. He toggled back to the other side in a bait-and-switch. All of his handsiness produced historically great steal rates among big men. He posted eight of the top 100 seasons in steals per possession. This includes the highest on record in 1989. Hakeem borrowed a little Bill Russell move, keeping his left hand low to target passes. When he left his feet, he limited other all-star centers as scorers. Hakeem was more impressive against all stars at his defensive peak. He held them over five percentage points below normal true shooting.

He dented their volume numbers by only a few. Since we have plus-minus data going back to 1994, we can get an idea of how valuable his defense was. Using that same hybrid metric from the last episode, his impact looks great. It's short of the all-timers.

Keep in mind, his 1993 numbers were likely better. He seems to improve in the playoffs. The box score numbers for those post-seasons view him as around a top 15 peak. This is with limited information capturing his defensive worth.

Much of Houston's success was driven by a strong defense. It is fair to assume much of Olajuwon's impact was defensively driven. This is hard for the box score to capture. Hakeem's isolation scoring and monster defense were functionally closer to a young Wilt Chamberlain. Players can carry subpar offensive talent but might not help good offenses as much. Hakeem's three-point shooting offenses generated better results than those early Wilt teams. I have doubts about how he'd scale next to another high-end talent, given his passing limitations and shot selection. He had the tools to add off-ball value as a rebounder and pick-and-roll partner. He provided an inside-out option for any offense. His prodigious defensive timing, mobility, and aggressiveness made him arguably the best defensive player of the three-point era. At his apex, he was one of the very best big men of all time.



