You know Michael Jordan. You know his legendary moments.

You know that fadeaway. You know his aerial gifts. But do you know what made him unique as a scorer? The ins and outs of his passing game.

His defensive strengths and weaknesses. Jordan's mystique grew in the 90s. But did he actually reach his peak before he ever hoisted a championship trophy? And were those the best seasons that we've ever seen on a basketball court? You are watching what greatness is all about.

Where's Larry Bird in all this? Has it blocked by Elijah? Michael Jordan saves the series.

Tackles.

One question: who was the best at his best?

We start at the ABA merger and go through the best multi-year stretches. Examining the legends who provided the most on-court impact.

These are the greatest peaks. He's the best athlete. He's one of the best competitors. He's one of the most skilled players. And that, to me, makes him the best basketball player that I've ever seen play. In this series, we've seen how big men ruled the game for decades. And how the offensive brilliance of Magic Johnson and Larry Bird reimagined what taller players could do. But there were high flying wings with offensive success in the 60s and 70s too. Elgin Baylor was the first superstar who really attacked vertically off the bounce. Then Julius Erving and David Thompson extended that approach. As a kid growing up in North Carolina, Jordan idolized Thompson. Thompson combined an explosive first step with a little sky walking. He finished third in MVP voting in 1978. Jordan was the next leap in that evolutionary chain. His incredible first step set a new standard for attacking the rim. When he entered the league, Michael could just teleport around defenders with his burst. He was able to get around players in just a single step. Even though he was a hair slower by 1989, this incredible acceleration was always the foundation of Jordan's success. He'd burn defenders to the right or to the left with this penetration.

He was so quick that blinking was dangerous. Joe Dumars flinches at a turnaround here. And then becomes a turnstile there.

There wasn't anything special about this first step.

It was just mind-bending acceleration. Jordan's like a Formula One car racing against Priuses. That acceleration shot him out of a cannon.

And that speed was a launch pad for his vertical finishing. He's flying by the second step here.

That helps him actually fly. The man spent so much time in the air he could have registered a tail number with the FAA. Some of these drives remind me of a running back turning the corner.

He'd take off and get really low.

Then transfer all that energy into his leaping. Note how his body protects the ball here as he hovers to the other side of the rim. He leveraged his body as an airborne shield like this.

Especially when jumping off of two feet into contact. Michael was strong enough to absorb hits while airborne like this. These physical gifts helped him reach the line at historically prolific rates. Magic kept defenses off balance with his playmaking. But Michael simply overwhelmed them with relentless pressure on the rim. His huge hands helped make some of this aerial wizardry possible. He manipulated the ball in the air on these drives or held it away from shot blockers. That's near the top of the square. On the release, these things were so big that the ball could slip off mid-shot. He could still reset it in his catcher's mitts like nothing happened. Of course, the hang time also makes this work.

Contorting and bending his body around bigger defenders in the paint. Jordan displayed the most fluid body control of perhaps any player ever. Slithering around opponents as he floated into a clear shot attempt. We haven't even mentioned his footwork, which was balletic at times. It allowed him to keep his balance while pivoting around like a top. And then that hanging aerial control to still square his shoulders on the shot. His legs were kicked out on the foul here. It didn't matter. All that hovering and twisting helped Michael's mid-range game too. His typical pull-ups were supercharged with that elevation. Hitting a trampoline and then firing over defenders. Whether he was twisting, leaning, or stopping on a dime, he could square his shoulders and still shoot. This kinesthetic mastery made his famous dagger against Cleveland in 1989 possible. He pumps and hangs but squares himself comfortably.

And strokes it.

Incredible.

We shouldn't overlook his shooting from the mid-range either. He was an 85 percent free throw shooter during these years. He was a knock down shooter inside 20 feet when given space. He also created space vertically with that leaping ability. Changing directions and springing clear for a good look. Michael didn't make thousands of jumpers with a hand in his face. He made thousands by jumping so high his releases were rarely ever bothered.

His handle was good enough to support sharp cuts. He really liked this low in and out dribble to set up defenders and probe for open space. He wasn't an incredible ball handler, but he was good enough to knife around the court. He could score at the basket with either hand. Jordan's robust repertoire made him the greatest scorer in NBA history. If we look at three-year playoff stretches and adjust for inflation to 2020 scoring rates, Jordan scored an astounding 34 points every 75 possessions. On true shooting, 7 percent better than average from 1989 to 1991. He holds the top nine stretches in postseason scoring rate.

He peaked in the late 80s and early 90s when his explosiveness was still intact and his mid-range accuracy was dialed in. He could always fall back on his most iconic move: the fadeaway. Sometimes MJ would get right into this off the catch. That hang time and separation created really clean releases. He preferred going to his right hand on this move until about 1990 or 1991. The vintage fade to the other side started popping up more regularly after that.

I recommend J Kyle Mann's history of the fadeaway for more on this shot. Since the triangle offense organically generated post-ups, Phil Jackson's arrival in 1991 facilitated more fadeaways for Jordan. Here's a great counter cut, audibling off this route with the defender overplaying him.

And flashing right back to the low block for the catch and turn. Michael's agility helped him off ball too.

He used screens and set up opponents for sharp changes in direction that freed him up. So much of Chicago's offense before Phil Jackson was bringing Jordan off picks from the baseline. Since he was comfortable flowing into attacks like this since his college days, the activity and principles of the triangle helped harness his off-ball movement. The triangle offense prioritizes balancing the floor and ball movement principles that played right into Jordan's strengths as a catch-and-go scorer. While Michael could read screens and flash to open areas well, he could also punish ball denial with that quick change of direction.

With increased space, he was so hard to contain. These back cuts were organic feeling: an overplay, then darting free to the bucket. His movement meant defenses always had to worry about him. He cuts right out of traps instead of idling. Even when a teammate misses him, those cuts could lead to rebounds. All his activity and his athleticism made him an excellent offensive rebounder. This is often overlooked because he was usually doing the shooting. This added additional off-ball value to his game. On the other hand, his weakness as an off-ball player was his three-point shooting. He peaked at 34 percent on low volume. It didn't seem to matter if these were pull ups or catch and shoot chances. I do think Jordan's release at the apex of his huge jump limited his range to a degree. When the NBA shortened the line to 22 feet in 1995, Mike made 38 percent on over 750 attempts. He struggled again when the line returned to 24 feet. Otherwise, Jordan was such a dynamic scorer that he flummoxed almost any defense of the time. The Bad Boy's Pistons dented him slightly, but that's about it. Despite his otherworldly scoring gifts, he wouldn't have six championships without a huge part of his game that is often overlooked. Rumors say Michael Jordan retired. Some claim he faked his own retirement. I don't know.

I know he loves basketball. He's probably playing in his backyard with his kids. I don't think he faked his retirement. When Michael was younger, he was often criticized for shooting into double teams frequently. While his athleticism was breathtaking, his shot selection was questionable at times.

Some of these were really difficult attempts. He was so skilled that it's hard to say he took poor shots per se. MJ was frequently doubled or tripled. He bypassed wide open teammates for some of these attempts given his high volume shooting. There are few players in NBA history who shot into extra coverage while a teammate was open more than Michael Jordan. Without strong three-point shooting teammates back then, missing these spot-up shooters probably didn't hurt that much. More importantly, these missed passes were easily outweighed by all of the open shots Michael did set up. His constant penetration collapsed defenses into the lane. When he did opt to pass, Chicago ended up with wide open looks. That last play was a jump pass.

Jordan often went airborne for a shot before checking down to an open shooter like this. That Luigi hang time helped him react to defensive decisions before finally passing the mic to a band mate. These jump passes set up more than just outside shots.

Jordan preferred to hit teammates in the lane. His go-to playmaking move was drawing a defender away from the rim as he hovered, then throwing one right to that vacated spot. Mike loved this jump and dump laydown, where he drove to the basket and then, with the big man stepping up to help, found a way to drop it off for a layup. These were some of his best passes.

He really dialed them in during the 1991 playoffs. He anticipated these little openings more and used his parasailing ability to exploit them more consistently. However, leaving his feet like this caused some issues when he decided not to shoot. Holding a hot potato while hovering with no clear outlet put him at the mercy of whatever was open. He switches to a pass here, but there's nothing really there. Another problem with passing like this is avoiding all the contesting arms and hands. So many of these balls were deflected. As a result, his reactionary jump passes led to a number of his turnovers. Jordan rarely anticipated openings as a passer. This is a simple lead pass to the streaking Horus Grant. He had to throw it early and he sees it late.

Then he thinks better of it.

Here he doesn't realize this teammate is uncovered. So he takes a dubious jumper instead of a layup pass. On this one, Scottie Pippen's back door cut opens a lob. Jordan sees it after it's free, then fires it.

Pippen could catch and pass. Most of Michael's best dimes were more reactive. Seeing an opening, then whipping it to a teammate.

Despite his reputation, he was always a willing passer. Learning more angles and reads over the years helped him drop higher level dimes like this. He threw in a bit of manipulation beyond that jump pass.

He went to the lookaway at times, impersonating Magic in front of Ervin himself. Jordan was also willing to look ahead for outlet passes. This is one of his better ones.

He was a good transition passer. Dropping a brilliant dime on the break every once in a while. To be fair, he missed plenty of good passes in these spots as well. Pippen's clear here, flying into the lane. That familiar drop off is open. In studying passers over the years, the great ones will find about 90 percent of these open looks. Michael connected on about 66 percent of them.

Keep in mind the sheer volume of open chances he carved out.

He drew attention away from his teammates with his perpetual scoring pressure. In the playoffs, there are no more than five players in NBA history who created more shots for teammates than Jordan. Using the same playmaking estimates from the prior episode, Michael set up his teammates for an open look an estimated 14 times every 100 possessions. A stretch only bested by the game's top offensive engines from the last 15 years. While Jordan was revered for winning 10 scoring titles, he was one of the all-time playmaking machines. He raised a weak roster and carried a strong one. From 1985 to 1989, before Scottie Pippen emerged and the triangle took hold, the Bulls' offensive efficiency was only around league average. There was only so much Michael could do as the lone offensive force on a defensively constructed roster. Pippen's emergence gave the Bulls another elite finisher and secondary scoring weapon. More importantly, another playmaker.

Scottie's passing is historically under-discussed. He was a deadly grab-and-go player.

Either finding layups in transition or doing the damage himself as he came down the lane. Pip was also one of the all-time great wing defenders. That, along with his unselfishness, made him a near perfect complimentary piece next to Michael. Jordan himself improved as a passer at the end of the 80s and into the 90s. With better teammates, the Bulls roared to some of the best offensive seasons on record, right behind Magic's Lakers. While we think of Magic as having everything run through him on offense, Michael's combination of scoring and playmaking gave him one of the highest offensive loads in playoff history. While Jordan's passing highs were mixed with some blemishes, his defense was even more boomer bust. The highlight reels where he's flying all around the court overlook all of his strikeouts. Focus instead on his impressive home runs. Jumping passing lanes might produce his most valuable defensive plays. These interceptions could be huge pick sixes that went the other way for easy points. At times, Jordan was like a cornerback sitting on a passing route. He had elite closing speed in 1989. Thai aficionado and coach Doug Collins busted out a half court trap at times. This allowed MJ to size up cross-court passes and turn them into easy offense. These gambles whiffed as well. Michael would sell out for them frequently. In this case, he can cover this kick out pass, but he is going for more with the steal.

This can lead to wide open looks. By my eye, Jordan hit pay dirt more often than not. There was a tax to pay for these steal attempts. He could get in passing lanes without gambling, reacting quickly in short space with the defensive equivalent of his first step.

This is a bread and butter cross screen of the era. Jordan not only switches it, but pounces like a black cat. He could shoot the gap with that burst.

This pass is airborne for less than half a second. Michael is airborne for more than half a second. Michael's quickness helped him keep smaller, shifty point guards in front of him. He could churn his feet while swiveling his hips to the dribbler. In textbook fashion.

For instance, he often guarded Isaiah Thomas during the Bad Boy battles. MJ's acceleration allowed him to recover laterally at times. His combination of size, strength, and agility held Isaiah below his normal scoring numbers in those matchups. Kenny Rogers gambling was part of his man defense too.

Michael would backpedal to recover a lot.

His preferred move there was to swipe down for the steal. As he slid in front of a dribbler. There was a lot of swiping actually, spamming the Y button at times. Plenty of them connected. They also gave opponents openings that would have been way harder to find if Jordan had just played it straight up. When he wasn't swiping at the rock, he was reaching first on Joe Dumars.

Then another reach around for the steal. He lunged for steals a lot on the block like this. He did flick plenty of balls this way, leading to deflections or turnovers. Man, he was usually overly aggressive with this move. Lurching at air, not once on this play, but twice. This led to a layup.

He brought those same habits to the post.

The swipe down move or a little flick.

While he stripped opponents some times, I think he was better off playing straight up against post players and using his athleticism and strength to contest. Against Magic in the 1991 Finals, Jordan gambled and then gambled again and was absolutely torched by the bigger Johnson in the post. On occasion, Chicago sent a second defender, and you know what happened. Another defensive gambit. Jordan loved the surprise double team. He ambushed unsuspecting players and let those giant hands pickpocket people. As Carl Malone knows all too well, these well-timed sniper shots worked against the deliberate post-ops of the 80s and 90s. Of course, there was a small price to pay when he couldn't cash in on these.

It left his mark wide open without structured rotations. Even after this play turns into a more standard trap, it's Jordan's man who was wide open the whole time on the other side of the court. Michael had an unquenchable thirst to make plays on defense back then. He's guarding a shooter here but drifts into the paint looking for action. That was Randy Whitman's fourth straight jumper. Jordan lurked like this because he did make a ton of plays from the paint.

One of his favorites was swooping in at the exact moment post players were shooting. MJ was one of the best shot blocking guards of all time. Able to leverage that athleticism to hang and reach shots.

This gave him a level of rim protection that most guards couldn't match. These saves at the hoop were high value plays.

This defies physics.

He would be floating above the ground, never touching the surface. Even with a little less verticality by 1990 or 91, he could still fly in and save the day. This play from 1989 demonstrates the big payoff of Jordan lurking near the lane. He's able to stop a dunk. This quick reaction and elevation would be elite even for a big man. Those aerial superpowers allowed him to protect the rim from behind. He served as a backstop by flying in from the free throw line on this incredible rotation. I don't know about you, but I find Jordan's high-risk defensive style difficult to evaluate. If we look at historical impact metrics, he's right at the top of the heap. With a nice lead in my box plus-minus model. Stats like these have difficulty handling defense well.

We really care about overall impact. The team at Thinking Basketball combed through nearly 200 old Jordan games. They calculated his plus-minus to give a better picture of his impact in the playoffs from 1989 to 1991. Jordan's Bulls were outscored by 12 points every 48 minutes when he sat on the bench. They outscored opponents by 8 points when he played. There's some noise in stats like these. Chicago's 20-point increase with Jordan in the game would rank 9th since the league began tracking this in 1997. This puts him up with the all-time results.

It doesn't separate him from the pack. He was quick to rotate most of the time.

Here the play unfolds rapidly, and Michael jumps on the threat. I wouldn't say he had great help awareness. He's late recognizing this despite a teammate pointing it out.

He could become momentarily preoccupied with action in front of him.

He forgets to rotate for a second. He was a strong enough defensive rebounder as a guard. This probably added value to his defensive game. Given all of his defensive strengths and weaknesses, I view him overall as a strong all-league defender. Not quite an all-time defensive wing. There are still larger questions to think about. How would he fit next to a post player who wanted the ball more? Are there diminishing returns next to a ball dominant star? What's his legacy look like if Scottie Pippen never emerged? What's undeniable is that Jordan was the first perimeter player to dominate with mega scoring and playmaking.

This puts him in the conversation for greatest offensive player ever. Given his defensive impact, it's easy to see why Michael Jordan is often considered the greatest player of all time.

