Alejandra Alonso


					Alejandra Alonso
			
Gender Female Dates born after 1976
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Unknown
Affiliations
			
Brazil National Team


Profession Quidditch player (Chaser)
First Introduced QWC: The Quidditch World Cup (essays)

"....came too far out of the scoring circle, allowing Alonso to slip past and sneak a goal that took Brazil ten points ahead"
-- match report USA v Brazil, Daily Prophet, 4 July 2014 (QWC)
Alejandra Alonso was a Chaser for the Brazilian National Team at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup.
Alonso and fellow Chasers Fernando Diaz and Gonçalo Flores were key to the success of Brazilian team (QWC).
During their first game, only the brilliance of the Haitian National Team’s Keeper kept the score close, before Haiti was disqualified for an illegal Snitch catch (QWC).
The Brazilians then won their quarter-final match against the Welsh National Team by 460 points to 300 (QWC).
Their semi-final was a marathon against the USA team, which they won on the second day of play (QWC).
Prior to the semi-finals, Ludo Bagman had adjudged Alonso to be the “Outstanding player” from the Brazilian Team. The Daily Prophet felt that the Chasers from Brazil had been “one of the joys of the tournament”. However, Brazil lost the final match to Bulgaria by 170 points to 60, following an exciting race for the Snitch by the two Seekers (QWC).
Since Viktor Krum, born circa 1976, was the oldest player at the tournament (QWC), Alonso must have been born after 1976.
Alejandra means "defender of men" and derives Old Greek alexein ("to ward off, defend") and aner ("man") (Baby Namespedia).
Alonso is a Spanish surname of Germanic origin (via the Visigoths), often used by Spanish royalty. It derives from the ancient name Adafuns (adal meaning "noble" and funs meaning "active, ready") (Surname Database).
Related images:
          
As she comes from Brazil, Alonso may well have attended the Castelobruxo Wizarding School.
Lexicon list of
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
MuggleNet: The Best Moments of the Quidditch World Cup
TheLeakyCauldron: Quidditch World Cup: Shadows of the Future?
Harry Potter Wiki:
WizardingWorld (Pottermore): Quidditch collection

							