Alicia Spinnet


					Alicia Spinnet
			
Gender Female Dates b. circa 1978
Species / Race Witch
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Gryffindor House
Gryffindor Quidditch team
Dumbledore’s Army (The D.A.)


First Introduced PS11: Quidditch

"...a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood's, last year only a reserve -"
-- Lee Jordan (PS11)
Alicia Spinnet was a Gryffindor girl two years (CS7) ahead of Harry Potter, in the same year as Angelina Johnson, Fred and George Weasley and Lee Jordan. She played Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team with Harry (PS11).
She was made a full member of the team in Harry’s first year, after being a reserve the year before (PS11). Alicia was a member of Dumbledore’s Army (OP16) during her seventh year.
She took Charms as one of her N.E.W.T. subjects. Dolores Umbridge questioned Alicia about Professor Flitwick’s N.E.W.T. level classes on her first day as High Inquisitor (OP15).
When the D.A. were learning the Disarming Charm in their first meeting, Alicia was hit “hard on the nose” by Terry Boot‘s wand which had gone slightly off course (OP18).
Though we don’t see much of her, Alicia seems to have a fiercely moral personality; she shrieked “How dare you!” when Draco Malfoy called Hermione Granger a Mudblood (CS7) and angrily told Oliver Wood that the situation with the rogue Bludger was “mad” and to ask for an inquiry (CS10). In another Quidditch match, when Malfoy stopped Harry catching the Snitch by holding onto the end of his broom Alicia took the penalty, but was “so angry she missed by several feet” (PA15). She reacted to the injustice “furiously, pummelling her knee with her fist” when Harry, Fred and George were banned from the Quidditch team, pointing out that Crabbe had not been banned even though he too caused injury after the game had finished, and that Fred had been banned when he hadn’t even done anything (OP19).
In the Quidditch final between Gryffindor and Slytherin 1994, Slytherin Beater Bole “hit Alicia with his club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger” (PA15).
She is also generally kind and considerate, trying to calm Wood down before the match against Hufflepuff (“Stop worrying, Oliver,” said Alicia soothingly, “we don’t mind a bit of rain”) (PA9), and reassuring the rest of the house after Professor McGonagall is hit with four Stunning spells:
“Madam Pomfrey will sort her out,” said Alicia Spinnet firmly. “She’s never failed yet.” (OP31)
Before Ron Weasley’s first match as Gryffindor Keeper, he “attempted to do his [robes] up back-to-front for several minutes before Alicia took pity on him and went to help” (OP19).
During the intensified Gryffindor/Slytherin rivalry prior to the first Quidditch match of the season in 1995, Alicia was hexed from behind by Miles Bletchley with a Hair-thickening Charm which resulted in her eyebrows growing so long they covered her whole face. Despite there being fourteen witnesses, Professor Snape turned a blind eye to Bletchley and insisted Alicia must have placed the charm on herself for some unfathomable reason. Her eyebrows were fixed by Madam Pomfrey (OP19).
Alicia was a member of the Quidditch Cup winning Gryffindor Quidditch Team in her last year at Hogwarts (OP30).
She returned to Hogwarts with the rest of Dumbledore’s Army to fight in the Battle of Hogwarts (DH30, DH31).
Excellent Quidditch player
Alicia is the Latin form of female given name Alice, which itself comes from the Germanic name Adalheidis (Adelaide) via Old French Aalis and Adelais. The Germanic name derives from adal "noble" and heid "sort, type" (Behind the Name).
Spinnet may be related to the English word spinney, which means "a small wood or copse" (Internet Surname Database).
Related images:
     
Lexicon list of Chasers
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Sword of Gryffindor
MuggleNet: Top Four Female Friendships in "Harry Potter"
Harry Potter Wiki: Alicia Spinnet
WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore) features:
 

							