Amycus Carrow


					Amycus Carrow
			
Gender Male Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Eyes Tiny Distinguishing Features Pallid, doughy, pig-like face
School
		
							Hogwarts - Staff
					

Affiliations
			
Death Eaters


Profession Dark Arts Professor Family Groups
		
Carrow family


First Introduced HBP27: The Lightning-Struck Tower

"You are not going to pass off your many ineptitudes on the students of Hogwarts."
-- Minerva McGonagall to Amycus (DH30)
Amycus Carrow was a squat, “lumpy” looking wizard with a lopsided leer and a wheezy giggle. Part of the group of Death Eaters who participated in the Battle of the Tower, where Amycus egged on Draco to kill Dumbledore, and had fun trying to curse Ginny Weasley (HBP27). Snape implies that Amycus and his sister, Alecto, were never imprisoned in Azkaban (HBP2); however, the Carrows were not mentioned during Voldemort’s resurrection at Little Hangleton (GF33).
While it’s implied Amycus has advanced enough in the Death Eater ranks to have a Dark Mark, since his sister has one (DH30), he still seems to be one of the lower-ranked Death Eaters.  Voldemort consistently places Amycus in positions he is unlikely to emerge from alive: attempting to murder Albus Dumbledore as part of a sixteen-year-old’s scheme, and taking on the post of D.A.D.A. professor despite the position being cursed.  This could be due to Voldemort’s ire at the Carrows’ lack of loyalty, or due to Amycus’s considerable lack of intelligence (DH30).
Amycus was the Deputy Headmaster of Hogwarts under Severus Snape, and tortured insubordinate students alongside his sister.  Just before the Battle of Hogwarts, Amycus disrespected Minerva McGonagall by spitting on her, inducing Harry to successfully use the Cruciatus Curse for the first time.  The Carrows spent the Battle of Hogwarts tied up, courtesy of McGonagall, and out of the way.  It can be assumed they were sent to Azkaban afterwards.
Encouraging children to torture each other.
Amycus was the son of Poseidon and the nymph Melia. He became the king of the Bebryces (a mythical people in Bithynia), and was very skilled in boxing (EM). Curiously, 'Amicus' (note the different spelling) is Latin for 'friend.'
Amycus Carrow is played in Deathly Hallows Part 2 by Ralph Ineson IMDB

							