Angelina Johnson


					Angelina Johnson
			
Gender Female Birth October,  1977
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Unknown Hair Long and braided (OP14) Distinguishing Features Tall (GF16)
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Dumbledore’s Army (The D.A.)
Gryffindor House
Quidditch Teams of Hogwarts
Captain of Quidditch


Family Groups
		
Weasley family


First Introduced PS11: Quidditch

'Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor - what an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive too.'
-- Lee Jordan (PS11)
Angelina Johnson is a tall, black (GF16) Gryffindor girl two years older than Harry.
Angelina is an excellent Quidditch player (a Chaser) (PS11) and was captain of the Gryffindor Quidditch Team during the 1995-1996 school year (OP12).
Her birthday is in the week before Halloween (GF16).
Angelina put her name in for the Triwizard Tournament but wasn’t chosen (GF16). She went to the Yule Ball with Fred Weasley (GF22, GF23).
Becoming Quidditch captain during her final year at school in 1995 (OP12) stressed her out and gave her something of a mean streak (OP13). She was a member of Dumbledore’s Army (OP16).
Later in life, Angelina married George Weasley and had two children, Fred and Roxanne (YL).
The illness of her father prevented her from attending the Quidditch World Cup final in 2014. Rita Skeeter speculated about whether this was true (QWC).
She is a skilled Quidditch player, being Chaser for the Gryffindor Quidditch team for at least four years (not including 1994-95), and was made captain in her seventh year.
Angelina is a Latin diminutive of the girl's name Angela, which ultimately derives from the male name Angelus, meaning "messenger" (Greek αγγελος/angelos) (Behind the Name).
Johnson means "son of John". The name John derives from the Hebrew name Yochanan, meaning "God has favoured me (with a son)" (Internet Surname Database).
Related images:
         
Angelina Johnson was played by Danielle Tabor in the first three films. She was replaced by Tiana Benjamin for the Goblet of Fire film. She did not appear in any of the last four films.
Lexicon lists of:
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Sword of Gryffindor
MuggleNet:
TheLeakyCauldron: Potter's Army by HawthorneAndPhoenix
Harry Potter Wiki: Angelina Johnson
WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore) features:

							