Appleby Arrows 
"Arrows fans will agree that their team's most glorious hour was their 1932 defeat of the team who were then the European champions, the Vratsa Vultures, in a match that lasted sixteen days in conditions of dense fog and rain."
-- Quidditch Through the Ages (QA7)
The Appleby Arrows are a professional Quidditch team based in the town of Appleby in England, who were founded in 1612 (QA7).
robes: pale blue with a silver arrow across the chest (QA7)
hometown: Appleby
They are fierce rivals of the Wimbourne Wasps (QA7).
Until 1894, when the Department of Magical Games and Sports banned it, supporters of the Appleby Arrows used to celebrate every goal by shooting arrows into the air. The ban came about because one of the arrows pierced through the nose of a referee named Nugent Potts (QA7).
Seeker (during the 1990s): Gregory Cotton (DP3).
An incident in the mid-seventeenth century during a match against Wimbourne gave the Wimbourne Wasps their name. One of their Beaters flying past a tree on the edge of the pitch noticed a wasps’ nest among the branches and batted it towards the Arrows’ Seeker. The Arrows player was so badly stung that he had to retire from the game (QA7).
In 1814 the Arrows were the opposing team in a match against the Banchory Bangers, whose antics saw that team banned from playing after several International Statute of Secrecy violations (QA5).
They also defeated the then-champion Vratsa Vultures in a 16-day upset match in 1932 (QA7).
According to the Daily Prophet, the Arrows won a match against the Chudley Cannons 350-0 when the Cannons’ Seeker missed obvious opportunities to catch the Snitch (DP1).
The Arrows later lost to the Ballycastle Bats, who were seeking to overtake the league leading Tutshill Tornados (DP2).
During a subsequent match played against Pride of Portree, the Arrows’ Seeker Cotton had his head turned into a cabbage by the opposing team’s Seeker (DP3).
Related images:
      
There are actually several places called "Appleby" in Britain. Before the appellation of Honorary Quidditch Town was given to Appleby-in-Westmorland by Bloomsbury Books in October 2020, opinion was divided on which four towns in England was the possible home town of the Appleby Arrows Quidditch team.
Lexicon timeline of Quidditch
Lexicon map of Quidditch teams in Britain and Ireland
Lexicon list of British and Irish Quidditch Teams
Although the dates printed on the Daily Prophet Newsletters are:
the timeframe for these events is 1992-1993.
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Harry Potter Wiki: Appleby Arrows
MuggleNet:
WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore) features:

							