Arsenia Gonzales


					Arsenia Gonzales
			
Gender Female Dates born after 1976
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Unknown
Affiliations
			
United States National Team


Profession Quidditch player (Chaser)
First Introduced QWC: The Quidditch World Cup (essays)

"... though for some - notably American Chaser Arsenia Gonzales, who took Bludgers to the face in the 34th minute - it will be extremely painful."
-- match report from the Daily Prophet, 9 July 2014 (QWC)
Arsenia Gonzales was a Chaser for the United States National Team at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup.
Part of the team representing the United States in the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, Gonzales participated in the first round match against Jamaica (won by 240 points to 230) (QWC).
Their quarter-final match against Liechtenstein (USA 450 – Liechtenstein 290) led to an international incident (QWC).
Their semi-final was a two-day match against Brazil which they lost (Brazil 420 – USA 310) (QWC).
Their last match of the tournament was the playoff for third place against a strong Japanese side, which they also lost by 330 points to 120. In this match Gonzales was injured by Bludgers hitting her in the face. The fourth place finish was still a good result for a team that hadn’t been expected to do very well (QWC).
Since Viktor Krum, born circa 1976, was the oldest player at the tournament (QWC), Gonzales must have been born after 1976.
Arsenia is the female form of the name Arsenio, a name from Old Greek deriving from arsenios, which means "virile, manly" (Baby Namespedia).
Gonzales is originally of Germanic origin (coming to Spain via the Visigoths) and derives from the first name Gundisalvus, which means "battlefield or place" (Internet Surname Database).
Related images:
          
As she comes from the USA, Gonzales may have attended the Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Lexicon timeline of Quidditch
Lexicon lists of:
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
Harry Potter Wiki: Arsenia Gonzales

							