Arthur Weasley


					Arthur Weasley
			
Gender Male Birth February 6th,  1950
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Hair Red ginger hair, as characteristic of the Weasley family. Eyes Wears glasses. Distinguishing Features Balding and thin, wears robes in varying degrees of shabbiness. Patronus A weasel
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Ministry of Magic
Order of the Phoenix


Profession Under Cornelius Fudge: Ministry of Magic Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office (with a warlock named Perkins). Under Rufus Scrimgeour: Head of the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects (HBP5). Family Groups
		
Weasley family


First Introduced Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

"They run off eckeltricity, do they? Ah yes, I can see the plugs. I collect plugs. And batteries. Got a very large collection of batteries. My wife thinks I'm mad, but there you are."
-- Arthur Weasley, trying to make conversation with the Dursleys (GF4)
 
"Did you really? Did it go alright? I -- I mean ... that -- that was very wrong, boys, very wrong indeed..."
-- Arthur Weasley when his sons flew in his enchanted Ford Anglia (CS3)
Arthur Weasley is an easy-going, middle-aged wizard with a passion for Muggles, and whose dearest ambition is to learn how airplanes fly. Arthur fought, along with the rest of his family, in the Battle of Hogwarts in May, 1998. He and Molly have at least twelve grandchildren, and it is a good bet that one of them likes to tinker in the shed with grandpa.
Arthur is a thin, balding man who wears glasses and long robes, and whose hair is a characteristically Weasley shade of red (CS3). Arthur met Molly Prewett in Gryffindor and quickly fell in love; they eloped soon after graduation and eventually had seven children (HBP6). He raised his family to wear the “blood traitor” label with pride (DH24), and it’s consistently evident that his wife and children are the most important things in his life (DH5).
Arthur worked for years in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office (CS3) at the Ministry of Magic, a job that, though it doesn’t pay well, he loves (GF11). He is particularly fascinated by Muggle technology, collecting batteries and plugs (GF4) and quizzing every Muggle-born he meets about anything from “escapators” to bus stops (CS4). He also enjoys enchanting Muggle objects, such as a Ford Anglia he bewitched to fly (CS5). While he worked for here, Arthur was the author of theMuggle Protection Act, an important law of the Ministry of Magic. This makes an interesting contrast with the anti-Muggle attitudes of members of certain other pure-blood families; one ofSirius Black's ancestors, for example, tried to make Muggle-hunting legal (OP6).
He was eventually promoted to Head of the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells Protective Objects, but always missed his old job (HBP5). Arthur’s laid back attitude and eccentric ways can get him in trouble with his wife at times, though most of it is probably deserved (CS3).
Unlike most wizarding pure-bloods, Arthur puts no stock in blood status, instead judging his friends and enemies based on their actions toward others. Generally he seems very well-liked, chatting comfortably with most Ministry employees (GF7, OP7). This contrasts sharply, however, with his palpable contempt for Lucius Malfoy (GF8), and he all but attacks Runcorn, after the wizard lands Dirk Cresswell inAzkaban (DH13).
Staying true to his beliefs, Arthur became a very active member in the Order of the Phoenix when Voldemort returned (OP6). One evening, while on guard duty outside the Department of Mysteries, he was attacked by Voldemort’s snake, Nagini, and nearly died (OP21). After some time in St. Mungo’s, he fortunately made a full recovery, though not before making an attempt at receiving Muggle stitches exasperated his wife (OP23, OP24). Dearest Ambition is to find out how Muggle airplanes stay up in the air (HBP5). Collects plugs and batteries (GF4). Was a Gryffindor when at Hogwarts. (PS6).
Ancestry: Pure-blood.
Mother: Cedrella (Black) Weasley. Cedrella's marriage to Septimus Weasley caused her to be "blasted" from the Black Family Tree (BFT).
Father: Septimus Weasley (BFT). Septimus might be the grandfather that gave Ron the Wizard Chess set (PS12).
Maternal grandparents: Arcturus Black (1884-1959) and Lysandra Yaxley (BFT).
Siblings: Arthur had 2 brothers (JKR); Ron's namesake uncle Bilius (PA6) may be one of them (he could also be an uncle on Molly's side). According to Jo, Ginny is the first female to be born into the Weasley family in generations, so we can deduce that Arthur had no sisters (JKR).
Spouse: Molly (Prewett) Weasley.
Children: Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, Ginny.
Grandchildren: at least twelve. Known: Dominique Weasley, Victoire Weasley, Louis Weasley, Fred II Weasley, Roxanne Weasley, Molly II Weasley, Lucy Weasley, Hugo Weasley, Rose Weasley, James Sirius Potter, Albus Severus Potter, and Lily Luna Potter. (DH/e, YL).
Home: “The Burrow,” Ottery St. Catchpole, Devon, near Stoatshead Hill.
Pet: The family owl (Errol), family ghoul
Casting a corporeal Patronus and Messenger Spell (DH7, DH9).
He was a thin man, going bald, but the little hair on his head was as red as any of his children’s. He was wearing long green robes, which were dusty and travel-worn.” (CS3).
“Mr. and Mrs. Weasley usually wore long robes in varying states of shabbiness.” (GF4). Arthur still has the marks from a punishment he endured at school (GF31).
When trying to pass as a muggle he wore  jeans and a sweater (GF6) and pinstriped pants with an old bomber jacket (OP7).
Weasley="In Britain and Ireland the weasel has a bad reputation as an unfortunate, even malevolent, animal. However, since childhood I have had a great fondness for the Family Mustelidae; not so much malignant as maligned, in my opinion." (JKR) This genus includes weasels, stoats, polecats, ferrets, mink, wolverines, badgers, skunks, otters, and others.
Related images
     
Rowling has said that she originally planned for Arthur to die when he was attacked by Nagini, but changed her mind (BLC)

							