Bill Weasley


					William Arthur Weasley
			
Gender Male Birth November 29th,  1971
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Other Names Bill Hair Long red hair Distinguishing Features Scars from being attacked by Fenir Greyback, tall and slim.
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Gringotts Charms Breakers / Curse Breakers
Hogwarts Prefects
Head Boy


Profession Curse Breaker at Gringotts Family Groups
		
Weasley family


First Introduced GF5: Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes

"...with a horrible great fang on it, really, Bill, what do they say at the bank?"
-- Molly Weasley (GF5)
William Arthur Weasley (Bill) is the oldest child of the Weasley family and is an adventurous person who works for Gringotts. Bill is married to Fleur Delacour.
The oldest son of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Bill is a caring, noble wizard who can’t resist a bit of “adventure and glamour” (HBP5). Slim and tall, Bill dresses as though for a rock concert (GF5), and is a capable wizard, earning O.W.L.s in all twelve subjects (CS4). When there was trouble at the Quidditch World Cup, Bill rolled up his sleeves and waded into the fray in support of the Ministry wizards (GF9), and when Mad-Eye Moody was killed, Bill was the first to volunteer to try to recover his body (DH5).
At Hogwarts, Bill was sorted into Gryffindor in 1982. He was made Prefect in 1987 and Head Boy in 1989 (PS12, OP9). Bill earned twelve Outstandings on his O.W.L.s (CS4).
After leaving Hogwarts, Bill went to Egypt to work as a curse-breaker for Gringotts (CS4). However, when Voldemort returned he requested a transfer to a desk job in London so he could join the Order of the Phoenix (OP4). He joined the Order in battling Death Eaters at Hogwarts in June of 1997; during the fight he was savaged by the werewolf Fenrir Greyback. However, he survived with only some scarring and a penchant for raw meat (HBP29, HBP30).
While working in London, Bill started dating Fleur Delacour (OP6) and a year later they became engaged, much to his mother’s dismay (HBP5). However, after Bill was attacked by Greyback and Fleur affirmed her love for him, even Mrs. Weasley came around (HBP29). They were married on August 2, 1997, at the Burrow (DH8), after which the couple moved to a beautiful seaside cottage near Tinworth (DH23). Charlie was the best man at his wedding (DH6)
Bill has an easy-going charm and gets along well with his family. His cottage in Tinworth was the only place Ron felt he would be welcomed after he ran out on Harry and Hermione (DH20). He also treats his mother with respect, though he held his own when she wanted to get rid of his fang earring or trim his hair (GF10). He also believed very strongly in the mission of the Order of the Phoenix, graciously allowing his cottage to overflow with house guests though he didn’t know what was going on. Harry felt bad relying so much on Bill and on Fleur, but neither ever complained (DH24, DH25).
Bill and Fleur fought bravely in the Battle of Hogwarts. In the ensuing period of peace and rebuilding, Bill and Fleur had three children: Victoire (born one year after the battle), Dominique, and Louis (DH/e, BLC, YL).
Mother: Molly (Prewett) Weasley.
Father: Arthur Weasley.
Maternal grandparents: Molly and Sirius are "cousins by marriage," (OP6) so Molly's parents are probably related in some way to the Prewetts listed on the Black Family Tree (BFT).
Paternal grandparents: Septimus and Cedrella Weasley (BFT).
Aunts & Uncles:
Uncle Bilius, who saw a Grim and died twenty-four hours later (PA6)
Great Auntie Muriel who has a goblin-made tiara (HBP29) and apparently is a memorable kisser (HBP14).
Cousins: Mafalda, a cousin who never made it into the books (JKR) and her father the Muggle accountant (PS6).
Siblings: Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, and Ginny.
Grandparents: Grandfather who originally owned Ron's "old and battered" wizard chess set (PS12). This grandfather could be either grandfather Prewett (Ignatius? BFT) or grandfather Weasley (Septimus? BFT).
Location of childhood home: 'The Burrow,' near Ottery St. Catchpole, Devon.
Location of adult home: Shell Cottage, near Tinworth (DH23).
Spouse: Fleur Delacour (DH8).
Children: Victoire, Dominque and Louis (DH/e, BLC, YL).
Curse-breaking
Brendan Gleeson, who played Moody in the films, is the father of Domhnall Gleeson, who played Bill Weasley in the films (source: IMDB).

							