Cadmus Peverell


					Cadmus Peverell
			
Gender Male Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Distinguishing Features "Arrogant" brother who tried to use the Resurrection Stone to bring back his lost love
Family Groups
		
Peverell family
Gaunt family


First Introduced DH21: The Tale of the Three Brothers (chapter)

"So Death picked up a stone from the riverbank and gave it to the second brother, and told him that the stone would have the power to bring back the dead."
-- Beedle the Bard, Tale of the Three Brothers (TBB/TTB)
 
The second Peverell brother, described as “arrogant,” told Death he wanted to call people back from the grave, so Death gave him the Resurrection Stone (DH21, TBB/TTB). Cadmus used the stone to call back a young woman he loved and wanted to marry in life, but she was unhappy to be resurrected and remained “separated from him as by a veil.” He was so grief-stricken that he took his own life.
Cadmus was the ancestor of the Gaunt family through an unknown female ancestor, possibly a sister of Iolanthe Peverell. The Resurrection Stone was placed in the Peverell ring and eventually handed down to Marvolo Gaunt (HBP10, DH22). Marvolo thought the Peverell “coat of arms” was engraved on the stone, but it was actually the symbol of the Deathly Hallows.
Brothers: Antioch and Ignotus
Descendents: Corvinus Gaunt, Marvolo Gaunt, Morfin Gaunt, Merope Gaunt, Tom Marvolo Riddle (Voldemort)
Probably named for Cadmus, the founder and King of Thebes in Greek mythology, who killed a Water Dragon and sowed the teeth into a field to create an army of warriors. He sowed a jewel along with the teeth, and the majority of the warriors killed each other fighting for the valuable stone. Bad luck ensued from slaying the dragon and sowing its teeth, and Cadmus began to turn into a dragon or giant snake himself, along with his wife (Sources: Wikipedia a b). A number of similarities with the story of Cadmus Peverell are evident.
the majority of the warriors killed each other fighting for the valuable stone: Compare to the history of the Elder Wand and its owners - and to Chaucer's "The Pardoner's Tale," on which "The Tale of the Three Brothers" is almost certainly partly based. -BB
Cadmus began to turn into a dragon or giant snake himself, along with his wife: Perhaps a nod to the fact that the descendents of Cadmus Peverell - the Gaunts and Tom Riddle - were Parselmouths.

							