Chaser
"The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to score. So -- that's sort of like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn't it?"
"What's basketball?"
-- Harry Potter and Oliver Wood's first Quidditch discussion (PS10)
The Chaser is the Quidditch player who passes the Quaffle, trying to throw it through the goal hoops. There are three Chasers on a Quidditch team. Each goal scored by a Chaser is worth ten points (PS10).
The ancient title of the Chaser was “Catcher” (QA3).
After a foul is committed, a Chaser takes the penalty shot one-on-one against the Keeper (QA6).

The practice of  “Stooging“, where more than one Chaser enters the scoring area, was outlawed in 1884 (QA6).
Two other fouls that can be committed by Chasers are Haversacking and Quafflepocking (QA6).

Hawkshead Attacking Formation
Parkin’s Pincer
Porskoff Ploy
Reverse Pass (QA10).

Joscelind Wadcock, Puddlemere United Chaser who has a Famous Wizard card (FW)
Darren O’Hare, who is credited with the Hawkshead Attacking Formation (QA7)
Petrova Porskoff, who is known for the Porskoff Ploy (QA10)
Alasdair Maddock, who loves Muggle sports (DP1, DP2, DP3)
Ginny Weasley, who is on the Gryffindor Quidditch Team, joins Holyhead Harpies after Hogwarts and later becomes the Sports Correspondent for the Daily Prophet (HBP11, BLC, Pm, CC)

Wilda Griffiths, who crossed Gwenog Jones and subsequently disappeared during a Quidditch match (DP4)
Dragomir Gorgovitch of the Chudley Cannons, who holds the record holder for the most Quaffle drops in a season (DH7).
Royston Idlewind, who played Chaser for Australia’s winning Quidditch World Cup team in 1966, and later became the International Director of the International Confederation of Wizards Quidditch Committee. He ran into trouble with wizarding Quidditch fans, particularly during the 1974 tournament (QWC).
Related images:
          
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Although the dates printed on the Daily Prophet Newsletters are:
the timeframe for these events is 1992-1993.
Lexicon timeline of Quidditch
Lexicon list of Chasers
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
Harry Potter Wiki: Chaser
WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore) features:

							