Chastity Barebone


					Chastity Barebone
			
Gender Female Dates d. 1926
Species / Race No-Maj Blood Status Muggle
Affiliations
			
Second Salem a.k.a. New Salem Philanthropic Organization


Profession Worked in Second Salem Church folding and handing out anti-magic leaflets Family Groups
		
Barebone Family


First Introduced FB/f: Fantastic Beasts (film series)

"Hand out your leaflets! I’ll know if you dump ’em. Tell me if you see anything suspicious."
-- Chastity Barebone (WFT)
Chastity Barebone was the oldest adopted No-Maj daughter of Mary Lou Barebone, a Second Salem leader in 1920s New York.
She was almost as fervent as her mother in handing out anti-witchcraft leaflets to the orphans who came to eat soup at Second Salem Church (WFT).
Chastity died when mother Mary Lou was attacked by a vengeful Obscurus as she attempted to discipline her other two children with a leather belt. Chastity was downstairs at the time, but the Obscurus flew through the building, overturning the table full of pamphlets Chastity had been folding and violently destroyed the church. Her body was found in the ruins when Auror Percival Graves arrived on the scene to investigate (WFT).
Adopted by abusive fanatic Mary Lou Barebone along with two siblings. Because she was adopted, there was no blood connection to the earlier ancestor Bartholomew Barebone except being raised with the same anti-magic obsession.
From Latin castitas, from castus ‘morally pure’ or "chaste"
The names Chastity, Modesty, and Credence are reminiscent of Puritan naming conventions (Source: Slate).
"Barebone" hints at the Puritan Sourer legacy Bartholomew and his family carry on; first, it alludes to the austerity of Puritan sensibilities; second, Praise-God Barebone was an English Puritan of the Commonwealth/Interregnum (the period of English history between the English Civil War and the Restoration of the monarchy, when Puritans basically controlled the government and instituted reforms related to their religious and moral beliefs) who belonged to a sect particularly concerned with Judgement Day and whose name is used in reference to the appointed parliament which immediately preceded Oliver Cromwell being made Lord Protector (Barebone's parliament). (Sources: Wikipedia 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
Chastity Barebone on Harry Potter Wiki

							