Cho Chang


					Cho Chang
			
Gender Female Birth circa 1979
Species / Race Witch Patronus Swan
School
		
							Hogwarts - Ravenclaw
					

Affiliations
			
Ravenclaw House
Ravenclaw Quidditch Team
Dumbledore’s Army (The D.A.)


First Introduced PA13: Gryffindor versus Ravenclaw

Cho Chang was a popular, pretty Ravenclaw student in the year above Harry who was his girlfriend for awhile. She loved Quidditch — she was a fan of the Tutshill Tornados since she was six — and was the Seeker for the Ravenclaw Quidditch team (PA13, GF22, OP12).
Harry saw Cho for the first time his third year at Hogwarts when the Gryffindor team was about to play a match with Ravenclaw. His reaction, which surprised him a little, was that she was very pretty (PA13). As that school year went by, he developed a crush on her (PA15).
At the start of the 1994-95 school year, when the Triwizard Tournament was announced, he imagined himself winning and seeing her face shining with admiration for him. Later, when Harry found out that he was expected to ask a date to the Yule Ball. He tried to work up the courage to ask Cho, but by the time he managed it, she had already accepted an invitation from Cedric Diggory, who was also one of Harry’s rivals in the Tournament . She and Cedric became a couple after the Ball, much to Harry’s chagrin (GF22, GF23).
Harry’s jealousy kept him from acting on the advice Cedric gave him about the golden egg until it was almost too late. In the second task, she served as hostage for Cedric to rescue, spending several hours deep under the lake in a bewitched sleep. When Cedric was killed at the end of that year, Cho was devastated (GF37, OP21).
In her sixth year, Cho joined Dumbledore’s Army along with her friend Marietta Edgecombe. Mutual interest between Cho and Harry deepened by Christmas time, when she and and Harry had their first kiss (OP21). Sadly, the relationship never took off. Harry was distracted by Dumbledore’s Army and Occlumency lessons, and Cho was still grieving for Cedric. Harry took her on a date on Valentine’s Day to Madam Puddifoot’s Tea Shop, but felt awkward and uncomfortable the whole time (OP25). A few months later, Marietta exposed the D.A. to Umbridge and Cho tried to excuse her actions to Harry (OP28). He was unimpressed with her attitude and his feelings toward her cooled considerably. Their relationship ended, and Cho dated Michael Corner for awhile (OP38).
On May 1, 1998, Cho returned to Hogwarts to fight in the battle against Lord Voldemort and the Death Eaters (DH29).
Born: c. 1979.
Hogwarts first year: 1990.
House: Ravenclaw.
Quidditch: Seeker for Ravenclaw (1993-), but initially had problems with injuries.
Patronus: Swan (OP27).
Spouse: Cho Chang married a Muggle (OBT/NO).
Quidditch Seeker, although prone to injury. Loyal to her friends.
Cho as a given name may be related to chou, which means "butterfly" (蝶) in Japanese (Behind the Name).
Chang is an ancient Chinese surname and can mean "constant", "mountain" or "open", depending on the context (Internet Surname Database).
Lexicon list of Seekers
Harry and Cho in OotP essay by eilanhp
Pottermore features:
Harry Potter Wiki: Cho Chang

							