Vincent Crabbe


					Vincent Crabbe
			
Gender Male Dates born c. 1980
Death May 2nd,  1998
Species / Race Wizard Hair Pudding-bowl haircut Distinguishing Features Thickset and extremely mean. Flat nose. Holds his arms sort of stiffly. The Polyjuice Potion to turn someone into Crabbe is colored a deep, murky brown. Taller than Goyle.
School
		
							Hogwarts - Slytherin
					

Affiliations
			
Inquisitorial Squad
Quidditch Teams of Hogwarts


First Introduced PS6: The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters

"Some people are into [learning the Cruciatus Curse], though; Crabbe and Goyle love it. First time they’ve ever been top in anything, I expect."
-- Neville Longbottom (DH29)
Crabbe was the son of a Death Eater and, along with Gregory Goyle, a crony of Draco Malfoy. Crabbe is quite dense, although he seems to be a little brighter than Goyle. Throughout his first six years at Hogwarts, Crabbe and Goyle sycophantically followed Draco Malfoy around and served as something of a bodyguard for him.
However, after Draco and his father Lucius were punished and humiliated by Voldemort in 1997, Crabbe became less willing to do Draco’s bidding. During this last year at Hogwarts, Crabbe and Goyle amazingly got top marks in class, excelling in the Cruciatus Curse when it was taught by Professor (and Death Eater) Amycus Carrow. Carrow was probably also the one who taught Crabbe to create Fiendfyre — but not to control it. Crabbe was killed (along with the diadem Horcrux) by the Fiendfyre he unleashed in the Room of Requirement.
Born: c. 1980.
Died: May 1, 1998 (DH31, YL).
Slytherin (Quidditch team Beater).
Member of Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad (OP31).
Hair: pudding-bowl haircut.
Voice: deep grunt, but surprisingly soft.
Distinguishing features: thickset and extremely mean (PS6). Flat nose. Holds his arms sort of stiffly (CS12). The Polyjuice Potion to turn someone into Crabbe is colored a deep, murky brown (CS12). Taller than Goyle.
Age: born 1980.
Interests: chuckling trollishly, smirking, laughing sycophantically, cracking knuckles, flexing muscles, sniggering stupidly, rubbing knuckles in a menacing way.
Chuckling trollishly, smirking, laughing sycophantically, cracking knuckles, flexing muscles, sniggering stupidly, rubbing knuckles in a menacing way.
“Krabben” Low Ger. ‘to scratch, claw.’ To be crabby is to be bad-tempered and combative, or to complain irritably (OED).
Crabbe's ancestry is never mentioned in the books, however, in 2001 Rowling flashed a notebook during a BBC interview that showed her notes on the students in Harry Potter's year and Vincent is noted as being a Pureblood. This information cannot be considered canon, however, because the notes conflict in too many places with the stories as they were actually published.

							