Gonçalo Flores


					Gonçalo Flores
			
Gender Male Dates born after 1976
Species / Race Wizard
Affiliations
			
Brazil National Team


Profession Quidditch player (Chaser)
First Introduced Pm: Pottermore

"Flores has emerged as one of his team's stars, celebrated for making the hoops from way out of the scoring box."
-- Ginny Weasley's overview of the semi-finalists, Daily Prophet, 11 July 2014 (Pm)
Gonçalo Flores played Chaser for the Brazilian National Team at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup.
Young Albus Potter is one of the many wizards who are fans of this excellent Quidditch Chaser, who was part of the Brazilian team during the 2014 Quidditch World Cup tournament (Pm).
Brazil won against the Haitian National Team in their first match of the tournament, the Chasers unable to score more than 100 points due to the Haitian Keeper's valiant efforts (undone by Haiti's disqualification). They were then victorious in a ill-tempered "grudge" match against Wales in the quarter-finals, where Flores and fellow Chasers Alejandra Alonso and Fernando Diaz gave another exciting performance for the spectators (Pm).
The semi-final against the United States ran over two days but was finally won by Brazil (420 points to 310). However, in the end, the brilliance of veteran Bulgarian National Team Seeker Viktor Krum meant that Brazil lost in the final - in spite of spectacular goals from Flores during the match (Pm).
Spectacular long-distance goal scoring
Since Viktor Krum, born 1976, was the oldest player at the tournament (Pm), Flores must have been born after 1976.
Gonçalo is the Portuguese form of the Spanish name Gonzalo, derived from the medieval name Gundisalvus, itself derived from the Germanic name gund ("war") plus Latin salvus ("whole, safe") (Baby Namespedia).
Flores derives from the Latin florus meaning "to flourish or bloom" (Internet Surname Database).
As he comes from Brazil, Flores possibly attended the Castelobruxo Wizarding School.
Writing by J.K. Rowling on Pottermore: History of the Quidditch World Cup
Screenshots of the Daily Prophet's coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup: http://imgur.com/a/AXutv

							