Hippogriffs
"Easily offended, Hippogriffs are. Don't never insult one, 'cause it might be the last thing yeh do."
-- Hagrid (PA6)
Hippogriffs are flying creatures with the head, wings, and forelegs of a giant eagle and the body (including hind legs and tail) of a horse. Their eyes are orange, while individual hippogriff colors vary as those of mundane horses do, including black, bronze, chestnut, grey, and roan. An adult Hippogriff’s wingspan is approximately 24 feet (PA6).
From the Greek hippos (horse) and the Late Latin gryphus (griffin) (Online Etymology Dictionary)
A possible source for the hippogriff's bowing behavior may be the noted behavior of the sacred, semi-tame deer of Japan's Nara Park, who will return a human's bow before accepting a treat from them (source: CNN). -BB
The hippogriff is a legendary creature born of the union of a horse and a gryphon. Since horses are the natural prey of gryphons, the fact that they would mate makes the hippogriff a symbol of love and impossibility.
Rowling discussing with Alfonso Cuaron how she created her version of the hppogriff:
Jo Rowling: I think it's important to say I didn't invent the hippogriff. I invented that hippogriff, but the creature the hippogriff, as you know, is in folklore and mythology, so that's not my creation. But I really thought hard about this, because it could've been, in the book, it could've ben an absurdity. And indeed, it really could've been in the film as well, but I thought you made him a real creature.
Alfonso Cuaron: There are not that many graphical representations of hippogriff, and that is something with the story that is very interesting. There are sphinx, there are several sphinx, or you see creatures that are half bird and half cat, a lot of different things. But for hippogriff, it was actually hard to find....
Jo Rowling: I knew that 'cause I went looking.
Alfonso Cuaron: You knew that, yeah.
Jo Rowling: I could hardly find any anywhere.
Alfonso Cuaron: No, I know.
Jo Rowling: So I thought it's complete liberty to invent. (PA/dvd)

							