Ignotus Peverell


					Ignotus Peverell
			
Gender Male Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Distinguishing Features Wisdom and Humility. Owner of the Cloak of Invisibility which protected him from Death
Affiliations
			
The Tale of the Three Brothers


Family Groups
		
Peverell family


First Introduced DH16: Godric’s Hollow

"Ignotus Peverell is buried in Godric’s Hollow. ...He’s my ancestor. I’m descended from the third brother! It all makes sense!”
-- Harry Potter (DH22)
Ignotus Peverell, the youngest and also the wisest of the three Peverell brothers, asked Death for a Cloak of Invisibility, which enabled him to escape Death until he reached old age, at which point he passed the cloak on to his son (TBB/TTB). Ignotus is buried in the Godric’s Hollow graveyard. His ancient-looking stone has the symbol of the Deathly Hallows on it (DH16).
Brothers: Antioch and Cadmus
Descendants: Iolanthe Peverell, Henry "Harry" Potter, Fleamont Potter, James Potter, and Harry Potter
"Ignotus" = Latin for "unknown" - sometimes used in historical or religious books for unknown authors.
 
The name "Ignotus" may be the author's pun about his lowly grave in Godric's Hollow ("Unknown"), or the fact that his descendents , such as the Potter family, did not know that their family heirloom was one of the Deathly Hallows. It is quite interesting that unlike most heirlooms, it was not held back until the child had come of age, but handed over when they were children, to be used mostly "for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food," which Dumbledore believed James did, or for more serious shenanigans such as the Marauders and Harry got up to. Perhaps that tradition of giving the Cloak of Invisibility to children began in an attempt to protect the younger generation from Death itself, but as time went on the family took it for granted, or did not realize how valuable the Cloak was. Like most wizards, the Potters seem to have believed the Deathly Hallows and the Tale of the Three Brothers were fairy tales or myths.
Roman writer Ovid penned the phrase "Ignoti nulla cupido" meaning "we don't desire what we can't see." This applied to Ignotus, whose Cloak of Invisibility kept him from being seen by anyone, especially Death.
 

							