International Statute of Secrecy
The International Statute of Secrecy is a wizarding law which was instituted in 1689 (TBB/WHP) and put fully into effect in 1692 (JKR/W3) in order to hide the existence of witches and wizards from the Muggles who persecuted them. This law was at least in part a direct outcome of the Salem Witch Trials of 1692-93 in Massachusetts Colony of North America (Pm), although many also cite the delegation of wizards who went to the British monarchs William and Mary circa 1690 asking for but failing to get protection of the wizarding population under Muggle law (JKR/W3).
The International Confederation of Wizards held a summit in 1692 at which were worked out the details and responsibilities for each country’s wizard government under the new law. It was decided that each Ministry of Magic would be responsible for magical sports in their own country. This led to the formation of the Department of Magical Games and Sports in Britain (QA5). Magical creatures native to each respective country were also to be protected and in most cases, concealed. Twenty-seven species of magical beasts, beings, and spirits were to be hidden from Muggle knowledge (FB). The Statute also includes guidelines for dress, which state what wizards should wear in order to avoid discovery (Pm).
The Statute resulted in the creation of the Ministry of Magic in Britain in 1692. This was also the year that the Magical Congress of the United States (MACUSA) was founded with the main goal of hunting down the Scourers who turned over witches and wizards to the Puritan judges (Pm).
In 1750, Clause 73 was added to the Statute, strengthening the requirement that each Ministry would be responsible for the concealment of magical creatures within its territory or face sanction from the ICW (FB).
International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy on Harry Potter Wiki
Rappaport's Law on Harry Potter Wiki
Rappaport's Law on Pottermore
History of Magic in North America on Pottermore
The International Statute of Secrecy: The Early Years by Sunnyskywalker
The International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy & Why It’s Kind of Bullshit by Lady Geek Girl

							