José Barboza


					José Barboza
			
Gender Male Dates fl. 2010s
Species / Race Wizard
Affiliations
			
Brazil National Team


Profession Quidditch team manager
First Introduced QWC: The Quidditch World Cup (essays)

"Barboza.... called her Chasers ‘talentless hags’, a comment he later insisted had been taken out of context."
--  Daily Prophet, 2014 Quidditch World Cup tournament (QWC)
José Barboza was the Quidditch team manager for Brazil’s National Team in 2014.
Barboza managed the Brazilian team that went all the way to the finals of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup (QWC).
Having unwisely spoken to journalist Rita Skeeter before the tournament, a bad-tempered feud ensued between Barboza and his Welsh counterpart, Gwenog Jones, after he called her Chasers “talentless hags.” Jones promised to curse his face off – and successfully did so – after Brazil beat Wales in the quarter-finals. However, thanks to efforts of the Healers, Barboza’s skin was almost fully regrown later that day (QWC).
Barboza was praised in Ludo Bagman’s feature article in the Daily Prophet for finding and bringing together such a young and talented Quidditch side. Having won their first round opening match, against the Haitian National Team, that infamous Welsh quarter-final and the two-day semi-final match, playing the USA, they lost in the final to the Bulgarians, after a spectacular Snitch capture by Viktor Krum (QWC).
Recognising and developing young Quidditch players with potential
José is the Portuguese and Spanish version of the name Joseph, which derives from Latin Ioseph, via Greek Ιωσηφ (Ioseph), and ultimately from the Hebrew name יוֹסֵף (Yosef), meaning "he will add" (Behind the Name).
Barboza is the Portuguese variant of the Spanish surname Barbosa, which is a geographical/topographic name from barba ("a type of plant") plus oso ("place rich in this plant") (Ancestry).
Related images:
          
As he comes from Brazil, Barboza may have attended the Castelobruxo Wizarding School.
Lexicon list of Team managers and coaches
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
Harry Potter Wiki: José Barboza

							