Lee Jordan


					Lee Jordan
			
Gender Male Dates born c. 1978
Species / Race Wizard Other Names River Hair Dreadlocks
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Dumbledore’s Army (The D.A.)
Potterwatch


Profession Quidditch commentator (1991-1996), Potterwatch host (1997-98) Family Groups
		
Jordan family


First Introduced PS6: The Journey from Platform Nine and Three-Quarters

"Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train – Lee Jordan’s got a giant tarantula down there."
-- one of the Weasley twins to their brother Ron (PS6)
Lee Jordan is a Gryffindor and Hogwarts student during the 1990s. He is two years older than Harry and Ron. He had dreadlocks (OP10) and is best friend and compatriot of Fred and George Weasley.
When Harry was on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters for the first time, he saw Lee with a box, showing the contents off to several squealing students. He had a huge hairy tarantula in the box (PS6). Lee commentates the Quidditch matches at Hogwarts, using a magical megaphone to make his voice heard all over the stadium. He does try to be impartial, but he has been known to pepper his commentary with his own personal opinions on everything from the model of broomstick someone is flying to the fact that Angelina Johnson won’t go out with him (PS11). Lee gets a bit carried away sometimes, particularly when the Gryffindor team is playing Slytherin – and the green team inevitably cheats. Professor McGonagall always stands by to take the megaphone away if he gets out of hand.
As Fred and George’s best friend, Lee was bound to have a healthy disregard for authority, and often opposed Professor Umbridge inside Hogwarts. After a sardonic comment regarding Educational Decree Number Twenty-Six, Lee was subjected by Umbridge to her black punishment quill (OP25), the only known student other than Harry to earn this dubious distinction.  It is unknown whether Lee, too, has scarring on his hand from the incident.  When the Weasley twins left Hogwarts, they left Lee in a bit of a funk. As a way of doing his bit for Dumbledore and also to fill the empty place left by Fred and George’s departure, Lee levitated a couple of Nifflers up and through Umbridge’s window. They proceeded to tear the place apart and attacked Umbridge when she walked in. Unfortunately, Umbridge blamed this on Hagrid and used it as a reason to get him sacked (OP32).
Two years after graduating, Lee resurfaced as the host of the subversive, funny “Potterwatch” along with Fred, Remus Lupin and Kingsley Shacklebolt. Lee’s code name is “River” (DH22).  Lee joined the Battle of Hogwarts when contacted through his D.A. Galleon, and near the climax of the battle, was seen slamming Yaxley to the floor alongside George Weasley (DH36).
Lee's father had dealings with Ludo Bagman (GF37), so is almost certainly a wizard; therefore, Lee is either a half-blood or pure-blood.
Lee is a unisex given name which is derived from Old English leah meaning "clearing" (Behind the Name).
Jordan is a country in the Middle East bordered by Saudi Arabia, Israel, Syria and Iraq. It is also an ancient, sacred river that flows from Lebanon into the Dead Sea (Wikipedia). Metaphorically, the River Jordan symbolizes a crossing place into "the promised land", death. Probably the most famous reference to this is in the African-American spiritual "Michael, Row the Boat Ashore":
Jordan's River is deep and wide, hallelujah.
Meet my mother on the other side, hallelujah.
Jordan's River is chilly and cold, hallelujah.
Chills the body, but not the soul, hallelujah.
(Wikipedia)
Lexicon list of Gryffindors
Pottermore features:
Harry Potter Wiki: Lee Jordan

							