Madam Hooch


					Madam Hooch
			
Gender Female Species / Race Witch Hair Gray, cut short Eyes Yellow, hawk-like Distinguishing Features No-nonsense manner. Sense of fair play.
School
		
							Hogwarts - Staff
					

Affiliations
			
Quidditch Teams of Hogwarts


Profession Quidditch referee, flying teacher
First Introduced PS9: The Midnight Duel

"Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you."
-- Madam Hooch, before a Slytherin vs. Gryffindor Quidditch match (PS11)
Madam Hooch is the Quidditch coach and flying instructor at Hogwarts. She teaches basic broom skills to First Years and referees the Quidditch matches between the House teams.
Hair: gray, cut short.
Eyes: yellow, hawk-like.
Expertise: Quidditch coach and Referee, Flying teacher (PS9, CS10, PA13, PA15, OP19, HBP14, HBP19, CC1)

She is an expert on racing brooms and can be as enthusiastic as any of the older House team players are, and while admiring Harry’s Firebolt, she mentioned that she first learned to fly on a Silver Arrow (PA13). This is the only hint we’ve had as to her age; the Silver Arrow was manufactured very early in the twentieth century before mass production was available (QA9).
Great knowledge of Quidditch and coaching. A broom enthusiast.
Hooch may be related to the Dutch surname De Hooch or De Hoog, which may derive from the German Hoch, meaning "tall, high" (Internet Surname Database, Wikipedia), although the most common meaning for the word in English is as slang for illegal alcohol (Oxford English Dictionary).
*Madam Hooch's first name is given as "Rolanda" in the Trading Card Game and in a non-canon article on Pottermore (i.e. not one written by Rowling herself). The Internet Movie Database website listed her first name as "Xiomara" prior to the release of the first film, but removed it after the film's debut for unknown reasons. Obviously they can't both be correct. Neither is considered canon until independently confirmed by JKR.

In the Films:
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone: Madam Hooch is played by Zoë Wanamaker.
Lexicon list of Referees
Pottermore feature:
Harry Potter Wiki: Rolanda Hooch

							