Miss S. Fawcett


					Miss S. Fawcett
			
Gender Female Dates born c. 1979
Species / Race Witch
School
		
							Hogwarts - Ravenclaw
					

Affiliations
			
Duelling Club


Family Groups
		
Fawcett family


First Introduced GF23: The Yule Ball

Miss S. Fawcett was Ravenclaw student at Hogwarts from 1991 to 1998 (CS11, GF16, GF23)
Possibly part of the Fawcett family of Ottery St. Catchpole. Attended the Duelling Club in 1992 (CS11) and the Yule Ball in 1994 (GF23). For a short time she had a long white beard, thanks to trying to cross Dumbledore’s Age Line to put her name in the Goblet of Fire despite being underage (GF16).
There is a discrepancy between the British and American first editions of Goblet of Fire. In the first British edition, we read "'Ten points from Hufflepuff, Fawcett!' Snape snarled as a girl ran past him." In the most recent American edition, Snape deducts her points from Ravenclaw (GF23). --SVA
Miss Fawcett's dates: During the meeting of the Duelling Club, Miss Fawcett was mentioned as though she were in Harry's year. She could not have attended the Yule Ball without an older date unless she were at least in Harry's year. Dumbledore's Age Line shows that she could not have started Hogwarts before 1990. It seems a reasonable deduction that she is in Harry's year. Still, this a deduction, not something stated explicitly in canon. -- MLW
However, Fawcett does not appear on the class list JKR has for Harry's year - which, while not the last word on anything, seems to indicate she was not meant to be in Harry's year.  Dumbledore's Age Line would actually bar most of the students who started in 1989 (like Fred and George), so Fawcett could be up to two years older than Harry.  She could also be in the year under him and found an older date to the Yule Ball like Ginny did.  But the year that requires the least back-bends puts her in the year above Harry's, the class of 1996 - that's the deduction we'll work with. --hpboy13
She may be a member of the Fawcett family of Ottery St. Catchpole (GF6).
Miss Fawcett is first mentioned in CS. Plumbing is important in that book, so "Fawcett" may be a purposeful play on "faucet" - perhaps foreshadowing the discovery of the snake carved into the sink in CS16.
Millicent Fawcett was an English intellectual who advocated for women's suffrage (source: Encyclopaedia Britannica).

							