Narcissa Malfoy


					Narcissa Malfoy
			
Gender Female Birth 1955
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Pure blood Other Names "Cissy" - used by Bellatrix; "Miss Cissy" used by the house-elf Kreacher Hair blonde Eyes blue Distinguishing Features tall and slim, looked as if she had "a nasty smell under her nose" (GF8) Wand unknown: lent to Draco after Harry took Draco's by force (DH31).
School
		
							Hogwarts - Slytherin
					

Affiliations
			
The Sacred Twenty-Eight


Profession Lady of Malfoy Manor Family Groups
		
Black family
Malfoy family


First Introduced PS5: Diagon Alley

"There is nothing I wouldn't do anymore!"
-- Narcissa to Bellatrix about saving Draco (HBP2)
"If you attack my son again, I shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do."
-- Narcissa to Harry and Ron at Madam Malkin's (HBP6)
Narcissa Malfoy is Lucius’ wife and Draco’s mother, a blonde with blue eyes and a look on her face as if there were something smelly under her nose (GF8).
She is fiercely protective of her son. Draco wanted to go to Durmstrang instead of Hogwarts but Narcissa nixed this because she didn’t want him going to school so far away from home (GF11). Narcissa is presumably the source of the sweets and cakes Draco has delivered to him daily from home while at Hogwarts (GF13).
A few weeks after her husband’s imprisonment (OP38), Narcissa paid a visit to Severus Snape, her sister Bellatrix in tow (HBP2). There, she deliberately went against Voldemort’s orders and told Snape that Voldemort intended to use Draco to strike at the heart of those opposing him. Narcissa is frantic with worry and pleads with Snape to “do it” instead of Draco. Snape offers to “help” Draco, but Narcissa insists on a vow — an Unbreakable Vow:
This was a key period for Narcissa, for she had realized that Voldemort intended for Draco to die as punishment for Lucius’ failure to recover the Prophecy. Her allegiance to Voldemort is broken and her number one priority becomes the survival of her family. Lucius was a broken man after Azkaban and the punishment the Dark Lord had meted out on him. Her son was terrorized. Narcissa became the strong one, holding them together as Voldemort used their home as his base of operations (DH1).
By the time Harry sacrifices himself to Voldemort in the forest, her change of loyalties is unequivocal: she runs forward to see if he is really dead and whispers a question to Harry, “Is Draco still alive?” When Harry says yes, she boldly lies to Voldemort and tells him that Harry is dead (DH35). As soon as they are back inside the castle, Narcissa and Lucius leave Voldemort and run through the melee shouting for their son and not caring about anything else. After the Battle, they huddled as a family in the Great Hall. Narcissa had her victory over he-who-would-harm-her-family.
Neither Narcissa nor Lucius or Draco were imprisoned when the other Death Eaters were tried and incarcerated for their crimes because Harry could attest to their change of heart (BLC).
Father: Cygnus Black (1929-1979), a descendent of Phineas Nigellus Black (BFT) === Mother: Druella(?) Rosier (BFT) === Siblings: Bellatrix (Black) Lestrange and Andromeda (Black) Tonks === Husband: Lucius Malfoy (b. circa 1954) === Children: Draco Malfoy (b. 1980) === Residence: Malfoy manor, Wiltshire, in south-west England === Affiliations: Narcissa is not a Death Eater, though she believed in Voldemort's cause until he put her son at risk (BLC).
  'Narcissa'" is the feminine form of the name Narcissus of Greek mythology. Narcissus was a beautiful young demi-god who fell in love with his own reflection and starved to death.  It is also the name of a flower, as opposed to the "star" names of her two sisters.
Last name meaning: 'Malfoy'=bad faith (RAH).
Related images
     
"Narcissa Malfoy and Regulus Black and the Downfall of Voldemort" from Mugglenet
Narcissa's Loyalties by buttfacemakani

							