Nicolas Flamel


					Nicolas Flamel
			
Gender Male Birth circa 1326
Death June,  1992
Species / Race Wizard
School
		
							Beauxbatons - Student
					

Affiliations
			
Beauxbatons students
Alchemy


Profession Alchemist

" ...no wonder we couldn't find Flamel in that Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry ...He's not exactly recent if he's six hundred and sixty-five, is he?"
-- Ron Weasley (PS13)
 
Flamel is a celebrated alchemist (DH2) who is famous for creating the only known Philosopher’s Stone in existence. As a result, Flamel and his wife Perenelle (b. circa 1333) lived for over 600 years (PS17, JKR). Dumbledore did some alchemical work with him in the 1900s (PS17). Flamel met his wife Perenelle while the two of them were students at Beauxbatons, and they contributed a great deal of alchemist’s gold to the school over the centuries (Pm).
Created the Philosopher's Stone and the Elixer of Life.
JKR on Flamel: Nicolas Flamel is an historical character. Flamel lived in France in the fourteenth century and is supposed to have discovered how to make a philosopher's stone. There are mentions of sightings of him through the centuries because he was supposed to have gained immortality. There are still streets named after Flamel and his wife Perenelle in Paris. (JKR) 
The author also had a dream once about visiting Flamel in his alchemy laboratory:
 "I remember having a higly detailed and exceptionally vivid dream . . .  which was like a renaissance painting come to life. Flamel was leading me around his cluttered laboratory, which was bathed in golden light, and showing me exactly how to make the Stone (I wish I could remember how to do it) (Pm).
 
Nicholas Flamel and his wife are talked about but not seen in the Philosopher's Stone movie. He appears in the second Fantastic Beasts film, "The Crimes of Grindelwald," played by Brontis Jodorowsky.
Flamel's wand had "a faux-bone handgrip with a gold joiner that connects to a mahogany shaft" according to designer Molly Sole - Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald: Movie Magic by Jody Revenson
His wand is "outfitted with a dragon's claw" according to "The Archive of Magic: The Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts: The CRimes of Grindelwald" by Signe Bergstrom

							