Nymphadora Tonks


					Nymphadora Tonks
			
Gender Female Birth circa 1973
Death May 2nd,  1998
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Half-blood Other Names Tonks, Dora (to her father)
School
		
							Hogwarts - Hufflepuff
					

Affiliations
			
Order of the Phoenix
Aurors
Advance Guard


Profession Auror Family Groups
		
Black family
Lupin family


First Introduced OP3: The Advance Guard

"I was never a prefect myself. My Head of House said I lacked certain necessary qualities. Like the ability to behave myself."
-- Nymphadora Tonks (OP9)
Nymphadora Tonks, or Tonks as she prefers to be called, is a Metamorphmagus Auror and member of the Order of the Phoenix. She is a pretty young woman with a heart-shaped face. Her hair changes color, but is often bubble-gum pink. Her father calls her ‘Dora.’
Tonks is an Auror and a member of the Order of the Phoenix. She was not part of the original Order of the Phoenix as she was too young. Tonks was part of the Advance Guard that helps Harry in his escape from the Dursley house; she carried his trunk slung under her broom. (OP3 ff., OP35).
Tonks is the daughter of Sirius Black’s favorite cousin, Andromeda, who married a Muggle-born wizard, Ted Tonks. Andromeda was removed from the tapestry of the Black family tree as a result of her marriage  (so Kreacher does not feel the need to obey her even though she is family) (OP6). That means that Tonks’ aunts are Narcissa Malfoy and Bellatrix Lestrange, whether any of them wants to admit it or not.
While at Hogwarts, Tonks was not made a Prefect (OP9). She said that it was because she lacked certain “necessary qualities,” specifically the ability to behave herself. However, she must have been a very capable student in spite of her fondness for mischief, since becoming an Auror requires high marks in many subjects. After leaving Hogwarts in the summer of 1991, Tonks had to undergo an additional three years of training to become an Auror, only qualifying in the summer of 1994.
Tonks is a Metamorphmagus, which means that she can change her appearance at will. She uses this ability in service to the Order, but it also helped her qualify as an Auror (“I got top marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training without any study at all, it was great.”). However, she is very clumsy and she had more difficulty with Stealth and Tracking.
During the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Tonks fired spells down on the Death Eaters in the Death Room, but was hit by a spell and injured severely. She recovered from her wounds after a stay in St. Mungo’s. She was sufficiently healed to join Mad-Eye and Lupin on the platform in King’s Cross as they met Harry from the train.
However, a few months later when Harry meets her at the Burrow, it is clear that Tonks is extremely unhappy. She has let her hair go a mousy brown, and looks “drawn, even ill.” (HBP5). Harry at first supposes that she is distraught over Sirius’ death but finds out later (HBP29) that she has fallen in love with Remus Lupin.
During Harry’s sixth year at Hogwarts, Tonks was stationed there along with Aurors Proudfoot, Savage, and Dawlish to guard the school. She fought in the Battle of the Tower.
During the summer of 1997, Lupin and Tonks were married. He regretted this afterwards because he feared what association with him would do to his wife and her family. When Tonks became pregnant that fall, he was terrified that he had brought doom on Tonks and the unborn child and considered leaving her in the care of her parents. He didn’t leave, and the baby was born healthy some months later. They named him Teddy after her father.
During the Battle of Hogwarts, Tonks followed Lupin to join the battle. Both she and her husband were killed, Tonks struck down by her aunt, Bellatrix Lestrange. Teddy was raised by his grandmother, Andromeda Tonks (BLC).
Mother: Andromeda Tonks (née Black), the sister of Narcissa Malfoy and Bellatrix Lestrange.
Father: Ted Tonks, a muggle-born wizard.
Spouse: Married Remus Lupin in the summer of 1997, before the end of July (DH1, DH4).
Child: Edward Remus Lupin, named for her father and husband (DH25).
Related images
     
Yet another Tonks essay... by hernandezstudio

							