Order of the Phoenix
"Mudbloods and werewolves and traitors and thieves..."
-- Kreacher the House-Elf
The Order of the Phoenix was a resistance group formed by Dumbledore in the 1970s to fight Voldemort when the Ministry’s efforts were ineffectual. The Order was revived in 1995 when Voldemort began to regain power.

During Voldemort’s first rise to power in the 1970s, Dumbledore gathered a group of people together to fight against him. They called themselves The Order of the Phoenix. Members represented a wide variety of folk, from wizards to Squibs. This diversity is a true mark of the organization and very much a key philosophy of Dumbledore, standing in direct contrast to the philosophy of exclusiveness found in those like the Malfoys, the Blacks, and by Voldemort himself.
After Voldemort regained his powers in 1995 and the Ministry was unwilling to resist him, Dumbledore re-formed the Order and recruited new members. There was a conscious effort to find people who would be spies within the Ministry; Shacklebolt and Tonks joined at this time (OP). This newly formed Order fought a pitched battle with Death Eaters in June of 1996.
Interestingly, the group of students being trained in Defense Against the Dark Arts by Harry, which calls itself Dumbledore’s Army, also consists of a rather motley group of misfits and unlikely heroes. That group also went into battle in June of 1996 and thankfully suffered no deaths, although several members were injured.
Many members of the Order died in Voldemort’s first Rise to Power in the 1970s. During the second Rise, several members have already been killed.
Until Sirius’ death, the Order of the Phoenix used number twelve Grimmauld Place as their headquarters. This old house, in a run-down area of London about a mile from King’s Cross, is hidden with a Fidelius Charm. In August of 1995 Harry spent some time there, hiding out and helping the Order (OP3, OP4, OP5, OP6, OP7, OP9).
Members of the Order of the Phoenix
Sirius Black
Let the Order use his family home, number twelve Grimmauld Place, as its headquarters. As the Ministry was on the lookout for him, he was not allowed out much. Killed in the Department of Mysteries by his cousin, the Death Eater Bellatrix Lestrange.
Dedalus Diggle
Wizard who is part of the Advance Guard that helps Harry in his escape from the Dursley house; appears to have helped shadow Harry in the years before Harry started Hogwarts. Favors a violet top hat, which often falls off as he’s quite excitable (PS2, PS5; OP3).
Elphias Doge
Old wizard, with a wheezy voice and silver hair who attended Hogwarts with Dumbledore (DH8). Was part of the original Order of the Phoenix and at the time wore what some considered to be a “stupid” hat. Part of the Advance Guard that helped Harry in his escape from the Dursley house (OP3, OP9).
Albus Dumbledore
Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Founder and Secret Keeper of the Order of the Phoenix. Saved the day at the Department of Mysteries (OP3, OP37) by incapacitating all the Death Eaters and dueling with Voldemort. Killed in June of 1997 by Severus Snape.
Aberforth Dumbledore
The occasion on which the team photograph kept by Moody was taken was the only time Moody had ever met Aberforth, as of mid-August 1996 (OP9). Aberforth was Albus Dumbledore’s brother, and works as the barkeep at the Hog’s Head in Hogsmeade. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Aberforth used the Hog’s Head to assist with the evacuation of students, and the arrivals of everyone who came to help fight.
Arabella Figg
Squib who lives with several cats in Wisteria Walk two streets from Privet Drive; key to Dumbledore’s efforts to watch over Harry while he’s with the Dursleys. Was working alongside Mundungus Fletcher the day the Dementors came to Privet Drive (OP2).
Mundungus “Dung” Fletcher
Crook by trade and handy to have around, though unreliable. It is unclear whether or not he was part of the original Order of the Phoenix since he does not appear in the photograph of the original Order (OP5) but was mentioned by Dumbledore as being part of the “old crowd” to be summoned when Voldemort returned (GF36). Dung probably caused Moody’s death during the Battle of the Seven Harrys when he went AWOL after Death Eaters attacked.
Rubeus Hagrid
Half-giant who was sent with Madame Maxime to look for Giants in the mountains. Fought in the Battle of the Tower, the Battle of the Seven Potters and the Battle of Hogwarts.
Hestia Jones
Pink-cheeked black-haired witch who is part of the Advance Guard that helps Harry in his escape from the Dursley house. New member of the Order (OP3).
Remus Lupin
Werewolf, part of the Advance Guard that helps Harry in his escape from the Dursley house — a necessary part of the team, being the only member Harry knew well and would trust at sight. Lupin, who has always had difficulty obtaining paid work due to his condition, now lives at headquarters and works full time for the Order. Fought at the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Seven Potters and was killed along with his wife Nymphadora Tonks at the Battle of Hogwarts.
Minerva McGonagall
Animagus. Transfiguration teacher and Dumbledore’s second-in-command at Hogwarts.  Fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody
Auror (widely considered to have been one of the best Aurors who ever worked for the Ministry) who was part of the original Order of the Phoenix. Noted for never having descended to the level of the Death Eaters even when given authorization to use the Unforgivable Curses during the first war against Voldemort; always brought suspects in alive where possible, and has the scars to prove it.
One of his few sentimental gestures is that he keeps a battered old photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Part of the Advance Guard that helped Harry escape from the Dursley house. Fought at the Department of Mysteries (GF19, GF27, OP3, OP35), and was killed in the Battle of the Seven Potters.
Sturgis Podmore
Square-jawed wizard with thick straw colored hair, about two years older than Snape and Harry’s parents. Part of the Advance Guard that helped Harry in his escape from the Dursley house. Arrested by watchwizard Eric Munch on 31 August 1995 at 1 am in the Ministry of Magic trying to force a top-security door; charged with trespass and attempted robbery, refused to speak in his own defense before the Wizengamot, and sentenced to 6 months in Azkaban on 6 September 1995 (OP3, OP14).
Kingsley Shacklebolt
Auror with some seniority and considerable ability, Kingsley was in charge of the hunt for Sirius Black, and was thus able to misdirect it to protect Sirius, aided and abetted where possible by Arthur Weasley. Kingsley was chosen by Fudge to assist in his confrontation with Dumbledore about the DA, and was key to protecting Harry from expulsion. Part of the Advance Guard that helped Harry escape from the Dursley house, Shacklebolt appears to have known James Potter, since he referred to James by his given name while remarking on Harry’s resemblance to James at the Dursleys’, although Shacklebolt is not mentioned as having been part of the 1970s Order of the Phoenix. Fought at the Department of Mysteries; continued Sirius’ duel with Bellatrix, but she escaped from him (OP3, OP27, OP36). Fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters and the Battle of Hogwarts. Shacklebolt succeeded Rufus Scrimgeour and Pius Thicknesse as Minister of Magic and brought many much-needed reforms to the Ministry (DH36).
Severus Snape
A former Death Eater and extremely skilled Occlumens who spied for the Order during the 1970s at great personal risk. Never ate at twelve Grimmauld Place. Snape’s role was to maintain his identity as a Death Eater to spy on Voldemort and use that information to keep Harry alive. in 1996, Dumbledore commanded Snape to kill him if he needed to to maintain his cover (among other reasons), and Snape bitterly agreed. Snape killed Dumbledore in June of 1997 and (still undercover) was made Hogwarts Headmaster the following year after Death Eaters took over the Ministry. Although Voldemort believed that Snape was faithful, he killed him anyway in a mistaken attempt to gain control over the Elder Wand.
Nymphadora Tonks
Auror, very junior as of the summer of 1996, having just qualified in the summer of 1995, Tonks was a member of the Order after it re-formed the same year she qualified. Young (perhaps 6 years older than Harry) and very clumsy (nearly failed Stealth and Tracking, has no talent for some very basic spells such as Scourgify), but exceptionally talented in Concealment and Disguise, being a Metamorphmagus who changes her appearance at will. Part of the Advance Guard that helps Harry in his escape from the Dursley house; key part of the Order’s spy network within the Ministry; seriously wounded duelling with Bellatrix Lestrange in the battle at the Department of Mysteries (OP3, OP38). Tonks also fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters and was killed along with her husband Remus Lupin at the Battle of Hogwarts.
Emmeline Vance
Stately-looking witch. Part of the Advance Guard that helped Harry in his escape from the Dursley house (OP3). “Nastily” murdered by Death Eaters in the first weeks of the Second Wizarding War (late June or early July 1996) (HBP1); Severus Snape claimed to Bellatrix that he was the one who betrayed her (HBP5). Murder occurred near 10 Downing Street, London (HBP1).
Arthur Weasley
Discreetly recruiting for the Order within the Ministry of Magic, as well as gathering information for them there. Injured by Voldemort’s snake while serving on guard duty (OP5, OP21). Fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters and the Battle of Hogwarts.
Bill Weasley
Took a desk job at Gringotts’ London branch to be available to help the Order. He has been talking to the Goblins, trying to determine which side they’re on (OP5, OP9). Bill was so badly mauled by Greyback in the Battle in the tower that he was initially thought to be dead. He survived, but with disfiguring scars and some werewolf-like tendencies. Fought in the Battle of the Seven Potters and the Battle of Hogwarts.
Charlie Weasley
Working with dragons in Romania, recruiting for the Order as well (OP5). Fought in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Molly Weasley
Took charge of decontaminating number twelve Grimmauld Place when the Order took it over (OP6). Fought in the Battle of Hogwarts, where she killed Bellatrix Lestrange.

Members of the Order of The Phoenix of the 1970s
who are not part of the above
Edgar Bones
Killed along with most of his family. Hagrid considered the Bones family to be among the best witches and wizards of the age (PS4, OP9).
Caradoc Dearborn
Vanished 6 months after the team photo was taken; his body was never found (OP9).
Benjy Fenwick
Killed, only bits found of him (OP9).
Frank and Alice Longbottom
Aurors, each noteworthy for having faced Voldemort personally and survived three times. Tortured into madness by the Lestranges and Barty Crouch jr. after Voldemort’s fall. Currently in St. Mungo’s (GF30, OP9, OP38).
Marlene McKinnon
Killed by Death Eaters (among them Travers, according to Karkaroff) together with her whole family, two weeks after the team photo was taken. Hagrid considered her one of the best witches of the age (PS4, GF30, OP9).
Dorcas Meadowes
Killed by Voldemort personally, a measure of how important she was to the fight against him (OP6, OP9).
Peter Pettigrew
Chosen as the Potter’s Secret-Keeper due to doubts about the reliability of Remus Lupin, coupled with Sirius Black’s last-minute idea of a bluff. Unfortunately, Pettigrew had sold out to Voldemort as a spy at least a year before. Became a servant to Voldemort and later Snape as a Death Eater (PA19, GF1, GF33, OP3, HBP2), until his death (DH23).
Gideon and Fabian Prewett
Brothers who died fighting a group of five Death Eaters, including Antonin Dolohov. Moody thought very highly of them, and Hagrid considered them to be among the best wizards of the age (PS4, OP9, OP25).
Lily and James Potter
Each noteworthy for having faced Voldemort personally and survived three times. Killed personally by Voldemort in Godric’s Hollow on Halloween, 1981 (PS1, OP38).

							