Parvati Patil


					Parvati Patil
			
Gender Female Birthday circa 1980
Species / Race Witch Hair Long dark hair Distinguishing Features Very pretty, twin
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
					

Affiliations
			
Gryffindor House
Dumbledore’s Army (The D.A.)


Profession Student
First Introduced PS7: The Sorting Hat

"Come on! We're supposed to dance!"
-- Parvati Patil at the beginning of the Yule Ball
Parvati Patil was a Gryffindor in Harry’s year. She was good friends with Lavender Brown.
Parvati had long dark hair which she wore in a plait. Harry by his fourth year thought her very pretty, while Dean Thomas considered her and her twin to be the best-looking girls in their year (GF23). Despite this, apparently neither girl had an escort to the Yule Ball of December 1994 until very late, when Parvati agreed to attend with Harry, who asked her after being turned down by Cho Chang (GF22). Harry was a rather disappointing escort, paying Parvati very little attention, and Parvati took up with a boy from Beauxbatons instead (GF23), and was somewhat cool toward Harry for quite some time afterward — understandable on the whole, since he had ignored her vexation. Parvati wore robes of shocking pink with gold bracelets and braided her hair in plaits with gold.
Parvati’s best friend is her fellow Gryffindor Lavender Brown. Both Parvati and Lavender are very impressed by Professor Trelawney and love Divination.
Parvati joined Dumbledore’s Army in October 1995, attending the first meeting at the Hog’s Head (OP16).
During their sixth year, Padma and her sister Parvati were among the students whose parents were so worried by Death Eater activity that they were almost called home.
Parvati fought in the Battle of Hogwarts (DH29).
Professor Binns, never a good one for names, calls Parvati 'Miss Pennyfeather' (CS9).
Boggart: a mummy (not a cobra, that is only in the movies).
Siblings: Padma Patil (twin)
parvati = the name of a Hindu goddess, the consort of Shiva (hindunet.org).
patil = a Hindi term used in central and southern India to refer to the head of a village (NSOED).
In the Movies
In the movies, both Patil sisters are in Gryffindor.
In "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," Parvati was played by Sitara Shah (IMDb), but in "Goblet of Fire" and "Order of the Phoenix," Parvati is played by Shefali Chowdhury (IMDb).
Interview of Shefali and Afshan (cBBC).

 

							