Peverell family


					Peverell family
			
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood
Affiliations
			
Pure-Blood Directory


First Introduced HBP10: The House of Gaunt

"See this? See this? Know what it is? Know where it came from? Centuries it's been in our family, that's how far back we go, and pure-blood all the way! Know how much I've been offered for this, with the Peverell coat of arms engraved on the stone?"
-- Marvolo Gaunt on the Peverell Ring (HBP10)
A legendary wizarding family connected to the Deathly Hallows and said to be the origin of the Tale of the Three Brothers by Beedle the Bard. The family became extinct through the male line, but survived through Iolanthe Peverell who married Hardwin, son of Linfred of Stinchcombe, and passed down the Cloak of Invisibility
Notable members include:
Ignotus Peverell
Cadmus Peverell
Antioch Peverell
Iolanthe Peverell
From the Surname Database website:
Recorded as Peverall, Pevreal, Peverell, Peperall, Pepperell, and Pepperill, this is an English surname. According to the famous Victorian etymologist Canon Charles Bardsley writing in the year 1880 'William Peverel was a natural son of William the Conqueror, who entered England in 1066'. ... the surname is first recorded in the Domesday Book of Kent in 1086, with that of Rannulus Peurellus and in 1186 we have the recording of Richard Peuerel, and in Warwickshire in 1221 that of William Peperel.
Tom Marvolo Riddle (Lord Voldemort) and Harry Potter both had Peverell ancestors. That could be one possible explanation why the Dark Lord chose to attack Half-blood Harry as a baby instead of Pure-blood Neville Longbottom, who came from a different bloodline. The young Tom took the Peverell ring from his uncle Morfin and turned it into a Horcrux after killing his Muggle father and grandparents, the Riddles. The ring contained one of the Deathly Hallows - the Resurrection Stone - though Riddle was apparently oblivious to that fact, just as Harry and James thought their Cloak of Invisibility was nothing more than a cool family heirloom. ~ SIP

							