Pollux Black


					Pollux Black
			
Gender Male Birth 1912
Death 1990
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood
School
		
							Hogwarts - Slytherin
					

Affiliations
			
The Sacred Twenty-Eight


Family Groups
		
Black family


First Introduced BFT: The Black Family Tree

(1912-1990)
Son of Cygnus and Violetta (Bulstrode) Black (BFT)
3 younger siblings: Cassiopeia (1915-1992), Marius (disowned, dates unknown), and Dorea (1920-1977).
Married to Irma Crabbe.
3 children: Walburga (1925-1985), Alphard (disowned, dates unknown) and Cygnus (1938-1992) who married Druella Rosier.
Grandfather of Bellatrix, Andromeda and Narcissa.
Grandfather of Sirius and Regulus Black.
NOTE: It is unclear if this is the Grandfather of Sirius who was awarded Order of Merlin, First Class for "Services to the Ministry" (OP6). This grandfather could also have been his father's father, Arcturus.
Ancestry: mostly pure-blood; descendants of mixed blood are not recognized by the family. 
Family in general: "The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black" (OP6); Sirius' parents were convinced that to be a 'Black' made you "practically royal."
Family crest is mentioned in OP6 but not described; however, Rowling drew it on her Black Family Tree. It shows a shield with greyhounds rampant charged with a chevron, 2 five-pointed stars and a short sword. In the formal language of heraldry, it is: "Sable, a chevron between two mullets in chief and a sword in base, argent." (Thanks to Richard for the terminology).
Family motto: Toujours pur ("always pure" in French) (from tapestry in OP6 and BFT).
Tapestry: a tapestry exists at number twelve Grimmauld Place that has, according to Kreacher, been in the family for seven centuries (OP6). On it the family's births, marriages and deaths are embroidered with gold thread; family members who have been disowned have been "blasted" from the fabric (a small burn like a cigarette burn is where their name is).
Important sources of information on the Black family: OP4 where we meet the portrait of Sirius' mother; OP6 where Sirius explains the Black family tapestry to Harry, and the Black Family Tree, a hand-drawn tree that Rowling donated to Book Aid International in January of 2006. We believe that this tree is meant to represent a portion of the tapestry.

							