Poppy Pomfrey


					Poppy Pomfrey
			
Gender Female Species / Race Witch
School
		
							Hogwarts - Staff
					

Profession Healer
First Introduced PS1: The Boy Who Lived

"Minister! Professor! I must insist that you leave. Potter is my patient, and he should not be distressed!"
-- Madam Poppy Pomfrey (PA21)
"Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out."
-- Dumbledore (PS17)
The Hogwarts school matron (U.S.: “nurse”), who is very adept with curing spells, potions, herbs, and other remedies. Harry thinks of her as “a nice woman, but very strict” (PS17). Among other things we’ve seen her regrow bones (CS10), cure a poisonous dragon bite (PS14), fix Eloise Midgen’s nose after she cursed it off (GF13), remove beards (GF16), and shrink overgrown teeth (GF23). In fact, she’s only been stumped once – by the pimple charm, cast by Hermione, that left the word “SNEAK” tattooed on Marietta Edgecombe’s forehead. Madam Pomfrey “couldn’t make the slightest improvement” to that one, though one wonders how hard she was really trying (OP28). It is true, though, that patients with severe injuries are transferred to St. Mungo’s (OP32), and that Dumbledore trusts Snape more than Madam Pomfrey to heal injuries sustained by severe Dark Magic (HBP13).
During the Battle of Hogwarts Madam Pomfrey organized the evacuation of underage students and treated the wounded (DH33).
Madam Pomfrey works hard to protect her patients’ peace and quiet, not hesitating even to throw out Dumbledore over an excited patient (PS17). When she is overruled on this front, she becomes very agitated (PA21). She has been the matron at Hogwarts for a long time, as she was there when Harry’s parents were in school (PA18).
Examples of Madam Pomfrey's healing:
'Poppy' refers to the opium poppy used in healing (Culpeper); 'Pomfrey' might refer to the medieval herb comfrey, used to aid blood clotting and for expelling phlegm (Culpeper).
Madam Pomfrey is played in the films by Gemma Jones (IMDb).
Madam Pomfrey: A character who does not get enough love in Harry Potter by Callum Gunn

							