Anti-Muggle Precautions


QA 5 —
										Anti-Muggle Precautions
					
AuthorKennilworthy Whisp (J. K. Rowling) Publication March 12, 2001 Abbreviation QA5: Anti-Muggle Precautions
Canonicity Primary Canon

The evolution of regulations governing the selection of Quidditch pitches is discussed.
1362
The Wizards' Council outlawed Quidditch within 50 miles of a town.
1368
The Wizards' Council outlawed Quidditch within 100 miles of a town.
1398
Zacharius Mumps writes about Quidditch.
1419
The Wizards' Council outlawed Quidditch any place where there was the slightest chance that a Muggle might be watching.
1692
International Statute of Secrecy of 1692
1814
The Banchory Bangers team are disbanded after a particularly wild post-match party.
...the Wizards' Council outlawed all Quidditch-playing within fifty miles of towns in 1362.
The dates of the various laws and decrees passed by the Wizards' Council help us in determining a timeline for the years in which the Council was the governing body of the British wizarding world as opposed to its successor, the Ministry of Magic.
...the Council found it necessary to amend the ban in 1368
Still the Wizards' Council at this point.
In 1419 the Council issued the famously worded decree....
And it is still called the Wizards' Council.
...the International Statute of Secrecy of 1692 made every Ministry of Magic....
Here we finally have a change of terminology from "the Wizards' Council" to "Ministry of Magic".
Note how short the timings are between amendments to the ban on playing near towns. Quidditch fans obviously find it hard to hide their activities.
Ministry of Magic representatives apprehended them as they were flying over Inverness and the Banchory Bangers never played again.
The Banchory Bangers Quidditch team from Scotland not only let their Bludgers escape but decided to capture a Hebridean Black dragon as their team mascot.

In 1419, the Council issued the famously worded decree that Quidditch should not be played "anywhere near any place where there is the slightest chance that a Muggle might be watching or we'll see how well you can play whilst chained to a dungeon wall."
Related images:
            
Lexicon timeline of Quidditch
Lists on the Lexicon: Quidditch
Harry Potter Wiki: Quidditch pitch
The-Leaky-Cauldron essay: Quidditch in Harry Potter
WizardingWorld (Pottermore) features:

							