Quidditch stadiums
"Choose areas of deserted moorland far from Muggle habitation...."
-- Zacharias Mumps, 1398 (QA5)
Britain and Ireland
Teams in Britain and Ireland do not have their own home pitch for matches. Instead, Quidditch stadiums have been erected on a number of deserted moors. Players and fans come from all over to attend these matches. Various charms and magical effects have been used to prevent Muggles from accidentally discovering the stadiums.
Rest of the World
Other than the Quidditch World Cup stadiums, we do not have any specific locations for the Quidditch stadiums that exist elsewhere in the world. They will be hidden from Muggle eyes in deserts, moors and other wilderness areas.
British locations:
Bodmin Moor

Location of the famous match of 1884 in which a Snitch escaped after eluding capture by the Seekers for six months of play. The Snitch is said to be living wild on the moor still (QA6).
Bodmin Moor is located in eastern Cornwall, near Devon. All of the land is privately owned. One might guess that the area used for the Quidditch pitch is on the property of a witch or wizard.
Dartmoor
The Quidditch World Cup of 1994 (GF8) was played in a stadium constructed magically for the event on Dartmoor (Pm).
Dartmoor is located in Devon in southwest England.
Exmoor
Exmoor National Park is the home of a new Quidditch stadium, which was originally covered with an Invisibility Charm (fans were advised to collect Re-Visibility Spectacles from the ticket sellers so they would be able to see the stadium and the match) (DP1). Things didn't work out very well with the Invisibility Charm, however, and fans complained that they couldn't see their seats, let alone the match. As a result, the charm has since been lifted with plans to instead try a special "Ministry of Magic Fog" (DP2).
Exmoor National Park is situated in the counties of Devon and Somerset in southwest England; Exeter is 40 km (30 miles) to the south and Taunton 20 km (13 miles) from the eastern boundary.
Ellis Moor
As happens on occasion, a recent match here had to be relocated when Muggles were camping near the stadium (DP4).
The location of Ellis Moor is unknown.
Hogwarts School
Hogwarts students play in a Quidditch stadium located on the school grounds (PS11).

Ilkley Moor
This stadium recently hosted a match between Puddlemere United and the Holyhead Harpies. Bad feelings between the two teams threatened to result in violence and the Ministry of Magic took the unusual step of confiscating fans' wands at the gate (DP3, DP4), though according to Quidditch Through the Ages, this was actually a violation of the spectators' civil rights (QA6).
lkley Moor is an expanse of moorland above the town of Ilkley in West Yorkshire.
Yorkshire Moors
Fans were advised to cheer quietly because Muggles occasionally come looking for the source of the all the noise (DP1).
North York Moors National Park is in eastern Yorkshire, bordering on the North Sea.
A steam railroad crosses the North York Moors, and along that line you will find the station at Goathland which doubled for Hogsmeade Station in the first two films.
Further information:

							