Raul Almeida


					Raul Almeida
			
Gender Male Dates born after 1976
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Unknown
Affiliations
			
Brazil National Team


Profession Quidditch player (Keeper)
First Introduced QWC: The Quidditch World Cup (essays)

"Almeida was a star of the lengthy semi-final against the USA and is a major reason for his team's presence in the final."
-- Ginny Weasley's team overview in the Daily Prophet, 11 July 2014 (QWC)
Raul Almeida played Keeper for the Brazil National Team at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup.
As their Keeper at the 2014 tournament, Almeida was key to Brazil’s victory over the USA in the semi-final, repeatedly stopping the American Chasers from scoring, thus allowing the match to be decided by Tony Silva’s Snitch catch (QWC).
He also played well in the team’s earlier matches – the opening match against Haiti and the quarter-final against Wales (QWC).
Only the brilliance of Bulgarian Seeker Viktor Krum allowed the Bulgarian team to beat Brazil in the final. As the Brazilians are such a youthful team, however, they are expected to be able to compete again at the next Quidditch World Cup in four years time (QWC).
Since Viktor Krum (born 1976) was the oldest player at the tournament (QWC), Almeida must have been born after 1976.
Raul is the Portuguese and Italian form of Radulf (related to Ralph), which comes from the the Old Norse name Ráðúlfr (ráð meaning "counsel" and úlfr meaning "wolf") (Behind the Name).
Almeida derives from the town of Almeida in the province of Beira, Portugal. The name is Arabic in origin: "The family (Al) which lives on the plateau (ma'ida)" (Internet Surname Database).
Related images:
        
As he comes from Brazil, Almeida may have attended the Castelobruxo Wizarding School.
Lexicon lists of:
Writing by J K Rowling on WizardingWorld (Pottermore): The Daily Prophet
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
MuggleNet: The Best Moments of the Quidditch World Cup
TheLeakyCauldron: Quidditch World Cup: Shadows of the Future?
Harry Potter Wiki:
WizardingWorld (Pottermore): Quidditch collection

							