Rolf Scamander


					Rolf Scamander
			
Gender Male Dates fl. 2010s
Species / Race Wizard Distinguishing Features Swarthy
Profession Magizoologist Family Groups
		
Scamander family


First Introduced WFam – Weasley Family Tree

"Last of the ringleaders of Dumbledore's Army is, of course, Luna Lovegood (now married to Rolf Scamander, swarthy grandson of celebrated Magizoologist Newt)."
-- Rita Skeeter (Pm:Quidditch)
Rolf Scamander was the grandson of Newt and Tina Scamander.
He married Luna Lovegood (BLC, YL) and Rita Skeeter notes that he was surprised by the flamboyant dress she wore for their wedding (Pm:Quidditch).
He and Luna have twin sons, Lorcan and Lysander (YL, Pm:Quidditch).
Rolf was a well-known naturalist – just like his grandfather – and “Chief Consulting Magizoologist” to the Daily Prophet (Pm:Quidditch) .
He is quoted in the Daily Prophet after the Opening Ceremony of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, giving his opinion about the inadvisable and ultimately disastrous combination of Quidditch Team Mascots.
“You would need the brains of a Billywig not to foresee an immediate bloodbath if both were crammed tightly together in tepid, brackish water.”
— Rolf Scamander (Pm:Quidditch)
Grandfather: Newt Scamander, the famous magizoologist.
Grandmother: Tina Scamander
Great Aunt: Queenie Goldstein
Spouse: Luna Lovegood, former member of Dumbledore's Army and naturalist.
Children: Twin sons Lorcan and Lysander.
Rolf derives from the Germanic name Hrolf or Old Norse Hrólfr, which come from Hrodulf (Behind the Name).
The origin of the surname Scamander is unclear. It may refer to a Greek river god or a mythical king of Greece, or to river names in Tasmania and Asia Minor (Wikipedia).
As he is likely to have been brought up in Britain, Rolf may have attended Hogwarts School. He is not mentioned during the time that Luna (and Harry) attend the school - and his age is unknown.
Writing by J.K. Rowling on Pottermore:
Pottermore enhanced reading experience: Quidditch World Cup
Screenshots of the original Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup on Pottermore: Imgur archive
Harry Potter Wiki: Rolf Scamander

							