Rose Granger-Weasley


					Rose Weasley
			
Gender Female Birthday 2006
Species / Race Witch Blood Status Half-blood Hair Red
School
		
							Hogwarts - Gryffindor
							Hogwarts - Student
					

Family Groups
		
Weasley family


First Introduced WFam – Weasley Family Tree

"That’s nothing, Rose is worried whether she’ll break the Quidditch scoring record in her first or second year. And how early she can take her O.W.Ls."
-- Hermione about her daughter's ambitions (CC1.2)
Rose Granger-Weasley is the older of Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger’s two children, and their only daughter. She is sorted into Gryffindor House at Hogwarts.
On 1 September 2017, Rose was preparing to take the Hogwarts Express to her first year at school, and was nervous about the sorting (DH/e). Hermione feels, however, that Rose is at that point already thinking about her academic achievement and excelling at Quidditch (CC1.2).
On the train, Rose wants to methodically choose who she and her cousin Albus Potter will sit with – as friendships are going to be so important to their lives at school, but leaves him after he chooses to stay in Scorpius Malfoy’s compartment (CC1.3).
Having demonstrated immediate control over her broom during their initial first year Quidditch lesson, Rose is announced as “your superb new Chaser” for the Gryffindor Quidditch Team during her second year by Headteacher Minerva McGonagall (CC1.4). Scorpius Malfoy falls in love with her and asks her out (CC4.14).
Mother: Hermione Granger
Father: Ron Weasley
Siblings: Hugo Weasley
Brainy, talented Chaser
She is described by Rita Skeeter as having inherited her father's "unfortunate" hair (Pm).
Writing by J.K. Rowling on Pottermore:
Pottermore enhanced reading experience: Quidditch World Cup
Screenshots of the original Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup on Pottermore: Imgur archive
Pottermore: Harry Potter and the Cursed Child
The theatre production opened in the West End of London at the Palace Theatre on 30 July 2016 with Cherrelle Skeete in the role of Rose Granger-Weasley: Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Parts One and Two

							