Seeker
Oh, the thrill of the chase as I soar through the air,
With the Snitch up ahead and the wind in my hair,
As I draw ever closer, the crowd gives a shout,
But then comes a Bludger and I am knocked out.
-- Ingolfr the Iambic (QA8)
The Seeker is the Quidditch player whose objective is to spot and catch the Golden Snitch. The role of the Seeker is often considered extremely important as catching the Snitch gives his or her team 150 points (PS10, CS7).
The position of Seeker was not originally a feature in the early versions of Quidditch (such as Cuaditch and Kwidditch), where the game was focused purely on the scoring of goals (QA3). With the introduction of a live Golden Snidget into a Quidditch match in 1269, the need for a specialised player arose (QA4).
The position of Seeker was originally called the “Hunter” (QA4).

Seekers need to be light and fast, with sharp eyes and good balance on a broom (QA6). Team captain Oliver Wood feels that Harry Potter is just the right “build” for a the Gryffindor Team’s Seeker (PS9).

Harry was the youngest Hogwarts School team Seeker in 100 years (PS9, PS16).
Charlie Weasley was Gryffindor Seeker as well. Wood said "he could have played for England if he hadn't gone off chasing dragons" (PS9).

Harry knew that Regulus Black was the Seeker of his Slytherin Quidditch Team because of his position in the team photograph - middle, front row (DH10).
Seekers are targets for attack and the book Quidditch Through the Ages states that most serious injuries seem to happen to Seekers (PS11):
"'Take out the Seeker' is the first rule in Brutus Scrimgeour's The Beaters' Bible" (QA6)


Related images:
                     
In the Philosopher's Stone film, the Harry, Hermione and Ron are in the Trophy Room and see James Potter listed as a Seeker, but J.K. Rowling has said in an interview that James was a Chaser (Sch2).
Lexicon timeline of Quidditch
Lexicon list of Seekers
Writing by J K Rowling on Imgur (Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup, originally from Pottermore):
Harry Potter Wiki: Seeker
WizardingWorld.com (Pottermore) features:

							