Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore


					Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore
			
Gender Male Other Names Sir Properly Decapitated-Podmore (called by Nearly Headless Nick) Distinguishing Features bearded head that he sometimes carries under his arm
First Introduced CS8: The Deathday Party

"We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo."
- Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore (CS8)
Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore was a large, bearded ghost and the leader of the Headless Hunt. He attended Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington’s 500th Deathday party with a group of his huntsmen, entering with his head under his arm blowing a horn. Sir Patrick and his men ride ghost horses into the party and begin a game of Head Hockey while Nick is trying to give his speech. Via letter, Sir Patrick had denied Nick’s application to the Headless Hunt saying that his head has to be completely parted from his body in order to join. Nick is brooding over Sir Patrick’s letter when Harry is apprehended by Filch for muddy footprints, prompting Nick to persuade Peeves to drop the Vanishing Cabinet over Filch’s office. In gratitude, Harry agrees to attend Nick’s Deathday Party where he tells Sir Patrick that he finds Nick very frightening, which Patrick does not believe (CS8).
The Headless Hunt, likely including Sir Patrick, participates in the Battle of Hogwarts, loping past Harry, Ron, Hermione, Draco, and Goyle outside of the Room of Requirement (DH31).
Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore denies Nick's Headless Hunt application by writing to him, showing that ghosts can communicate to each other by writing letters (CS8).
Head Hockey, Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo
Patrick = from the Latin Patricius, meaning "nobleman"
Delaney = Irish surname from the Gaelic Ó Dubhsláine, with Dubh meaning "black" and "Slaine" for the River Slaine
Podmore = English surname, 14th century, meaning "the tadepole-moor," from pode meaning "tadpole" and mor for"moor"

							