Ted Tonks


					Edward "Ted" Tonks
			
Gender Male Death March,  1998
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Muggle-born Other Names Ted Hair Fair-haired Distinguishing Features Big-bellied man
Family Groups
		
Tonks family


First Introduced OP3: The Advance Guard

“I’ve fixed your ribs, your tooth, and your arm. I’m Ted, by the way, Ted Tonks — Dora’s father.”
-- Ted Tonks (DH5)
Ted Tonks was a Muggle-born wizard, father of Nymphadora and husband of Andromeda. He was described by his daughter as a “right old slob,” in contrast to the Dursleys, whose house seemed unnaturally clean to Nymphadora (OP3). Andromeda’s marriage to Ted resulted in her being disowned by the Black family (OP6, BFT). Ted Tonks had fair hair and a large-ish belly (DH5). During the war on Voldemort, Ted tried to run from the Ministry (DH15), but was caught and killed (DH22).
The Black family, an ancient and pure-blood family, did not approve of the marriage between Ted Tonks and Andromeda Black because of Ted Tonks' muggle-born status.
Ted and Andromeda Tonks were not members of the Order of the Phoenix like their daughter, Nymphadora Tonks, but they often assisted the Order. Their house was a safe house for the Battle of the Seven Potters.
Ted Tonks went on the run after Lord Voldemort took over the Ministry of Magic and created the Muggle-born Registration Commission. He banded together with Dean Thomas, then subsequently with Dirk Cresswell, Griphook and Gornuk. He was caught on the run and killed, along with Cresswell and Gornuk. Their deaths were announced on Potterwatch.
Husband to Andromeda Tonks (witch, sister of Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy), and father of Nymphadora Tonks. Father-in-law to Nymphadora Tonks' husband, Remus Lupin. Grandfather to Teddy Tonks.
Kind, inclusive, and loving. Ted is adept at healing, judging by the way he fixed Harry's injuries after crashing into the back garden.
Ted's first name is never specifically stated as Edward. However, his grandson is named "Edward Lupin (Teddy)" according to Pottermore.
Remus Lupin on Pottermore

							