Torquil Travers


					Torquil Travers
			
Gender Male Dates fl. 1927
Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Distinguishing Features "mean-spirited" approach to leading Aurors and fighting Grindelwald
Affiliations
			
The Sacred Twenty-Eight
Pure-Blood Directory


Profession Head of Magical Law Enforcement for the Ministry of Magic Family Groups
		
Travers family


First Introduced CG: The Crimes of Grindelwald

I’m the Head of Magical Law Enforcement and I have the right to go wherever I please.
-- Torquil Travers to Dumbledore's DADA class, 1927 (CG)
Torquil Travers was Head of Magical Law Enforcement for the Ministry of Magic during the mid-1920s. His swaggering personality was “harsh and mean-spirited” (CG).
When Newt Scamander requested to have his international travel restrictions lifted in 1927 after confronting Grindelwald and an Obscurus in New York City, Travers exaggerated his role, accusing Newt of “destroying half of New York,” which was not a fair appraisal. He insisted that Newt either had to become an Auror like his brother, Theseus, or never travel abroad again. Newt declined the invitation, and went abroad to Paris soon after (without permission) to be reunited with American Auror Tina Goldstein.
Travers was just as rough and tough on Dumbledore, who was teaching Defense Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts in 1927. He believed that Dumbledore sent Newt to Paris for reasons of his own, and that Dumbledore was plotting against him. However, even though Travers did not like Dumbledore, he believed that he was the only one who could equal Grindelwald’s power and stop his rampage across Europe. When Dumbledore declined, Travers implied that it was because he and Grindelwald were once “as close as brothers,” and showed all the Aurors a slideshow of pictures of the two boys together in their youth. Getting nowhere with this rude tactic, Travers merely slapped metal Admonitor cuffs on Dumbledore which would keep track of all his spells, and flew off to Paris with the other Aurors to confront Grindelwald head-on. But Dumbledore warned Newt’s brother Theseus that this approach to Grindelwald would only cause more deaths, and urged him not to follow orders from Travers.
 
Leadership, but wouldn't not stand for opposition
Torquil is a from the Nordic name "Torcall," referring to Thor, the god of thunder. This perhaps is a comment on Travers habit of shouting orders.
Travers is a common British name with many literary links. There are several characters named Travers in the Jeeves and Wooster books by British author P.G. Wodehouse. The author of the Mary Poppins books, Australian-born writer P.L. Travers worked for the British Ministry of Information during World War II and traveled to New York City, much like Newt Scamander.
Torquil Travers on Harry Potter Wiki

							