Travers


					Travers
			
Gender Male Species / Race Wizard Blood Status Pure blood Hair bushy gray Distinguishing Features tall; thin; long sharp nose
Affiliations
			
Death Eaters


Family Groups
		
Travers family


First Introduced GF30: The Pensieve

"Some of these wandless can be troublesome. While they do nothing but beg I have no objection, but one of them actually asked me to plead her case in the Ministry next week. 'I'm a witch, sir, I'm a witch, let me prove it to you'!"
-- Travers on the Muggle-born Registration Commission (DH26)

Travers was a Death Eater who murdered Marlene McKinnon and her family, according to Karkaroff during his own trial. At that point, Travers had already been captured by the Ministry (GF30, OP9).
Travers later escaped and partook in the Battle of the Seven Potters, where he was cursed by Kingsley (DH5).  However, he survived, and went back to work at the Voldemort-controlled Ministry of Magic, where he was a colleague of Dolores Umbridge on the Muggle-born Registration Commission (DH13); he was also responsible for the bullying of Xenophilius Lovegood after the Death Eaters kidnapped Luna (DH21).  Travers and Selwyn nearly caught Harry at the Lovegoods’ house, but were foiled by Hermione’s quick thinking.  Travers showed himself to be more cool-headed than Selwyn when he used Homenum revelio to ascertain whether Xenophilius’s claims had any merit.
Travers had a most unfortunately timed encounter with a woman who he thought was Bellatrix Lestrange, going into Gringotts, though it was actually Hermione preparing to break into Bellatrix’s vault. Harry quickly placed him under an Imperius Curse and made him hide in a crack in the wall of the cave tunnels (DH26). The curse wore off by that night, as Travers partook in the Battle of Hogwarts, dueling Parvati Patil at one point (DH32).
It's curious whether Travers was one of the ten Death Eaters who was broken out of Azkaban in January 1996.  Murdering the McKinnons is certainly one of the more horrible crimes in the first war, which would rank Travers among the "worst Death Eaters" and incentivize Voldemort to liberate him.  However, the other Death Eaters who broke out (Dolohov, Rookwood, Mulciber, and the Lestranges) all partake in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, whereas Travers does not.  Travers does participate in both major battles of the seventh book, suggesting that perhaps he was first liberated from Azkaban in the summer 1997 breakout.  This begs the question: why did Voldemort leave Travers in Azkaban for an extra year and a half?
"Travers" from Harry Potter Wiki

							