Viktor Krum


					Viktor Krum
			
Gender Male Dates born c. 1976
Species / Race Wizard Hair Dark Eyes Dark Distinguishing Features Hooked nose, thick black eyebrows, round-shouldered, duck-footed Wand Gregorovitch-made: rigid thick hornbeam and dragon heartstring, ten and one-quarter inches
School
		
							Durmstrang - Student
					

Affiliations
			
Triwizard Tournament
Bulgaria National Team
Durmstrang students


Profession Quidditch player (Seeker)
First Introduced GF5: Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes

“Vot is the point of being an international Quidditch player if all the good-looking girls are taken?”
-- Viktor Krum (DH8)
Viktor Krum is a Bulgarian wizard who was their national side’s Seeker at the Quidditch World Cup (1994, 2002, 2014) and also Durmstrang Institute‘s representative at the Triwizard Tournament held at Hogwarts in 1994.
A famous international Quidditch player for the Bulgarian National Team while still in school (GF8), Viktor Krum attended Hogwarts for the 1994-1995 school year, and represented Durmstrang Institute as their 1994 – 1995 Triwizard Tournament champion (GF16). Though a number of girls spent the year fawning over him (GF19), Krum became interested in Hermione, who accompanied him to the Yule Ball (GF23) and was the person he would “sorely miss,” held hostage in the second task. Despite his surly nature and Ron’s jealousy (GF23, OP21), Krum was always kind to Harry (GF37).
Krum was still corresponding with Hermione a year after the Triwizard Tournament (OP21), although she appeared to have declined his invitation to visit during the summer of 1995 (GF27). He saw Hermione and Harry again (though Harry was in disguise) at Fleur Delacour’s wedding; there he took exception to the symbol of the Deathly Hallows that Xenophilius Lovegood was wearing, thinking it to be the symbol of Gellert Grindelwald (DH8).
Viktor Krum announced his retirement from Quidditch after losing the Snitch to the Egyptian National Team’s Seeker of the in the final of the 2002 Quidditch World Cup tournament (Pm). However, in 2014 Krum came out of retirement to again take on the position of Seeker for the Bulgarian National Team. Many wrote him off as too old to play at 38, but he took his underdog team all the way to an emotional (and popular) win at the 2014 Quidditch World Cup (Pm).
Excellent at Quidditch
Viktor is an alternate spelling of Victor, which is also a word meaning "winner". -BB
Related images
     
Writing by J.K. Rowling on Pottermore:
Pottermore enhanced reading experience: Quidditch World Cup
Screenshots of the original Daily Prophet coverage of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup on Pottermore: Imgur archive
Harry Potter Wiki: Viktor Krum
Essays
What was it about Viktor Krum that attracted Hermione Granger to him in the first place? by Rachel Leishman
The Battle in Hermione's Heart by Segonku

							