There's a mythology about Bill Walton that few players can match.
Blazer Mania, that fiery mountain man beard, and countless injuries that ended his prime as soon as it began.
His first two seasons were shortened by an assortment of ailments.
Before a brief two-year stretch in 1977 and 1978 that yielded an NBA championship and an MVP trophy.
So just how good were those two seasons?
Was that brief peak enough to compete with the most dominant centers in NBA history?
And was he the greatest passing big man of all time?
Larry Bird in all this has it blocked by Elijah.
Michael Jordan saves the day.
This series tackles one question: who was the best at his best?
We started the ABA merger and go through the best multi-year stretches.
Examining the legends who provided the most on-court impact.
These are the greatest peaks.

Before we can estimate Walton's impact, it's important to understand the way the game was played before the three-point line.
With so many shots funneled into the paint and no extra point for stretching out the court, defensive big men were titans back then.
The definitive basketball archetype wasn't a high-flying scoring guard, but a dominant center.
And no, not Wilt Chamberlain, but his rival Bill Russell.
Russell's defensive genius reigned over the prior decade.
Where he won five MVPs without being a heavy scorer on offense.
That's worth repeating.
Wilt Chamberlain once averaged 50 points per game in a season.
But the zeitgeist of the time was to play like Russell.
In 1967, after years of volume scoring, Chamberlain's own coach asked him to play like Russell.
Shoot less, pass more, protect the paint.
And this led to a new record for wins and an end to the Celtics’ eight consecutive title streak.

The search for the next Russell peaked in 1969.
When a rookie Wes Unseld won the MVP by playing a team-centric pass, rebound, and defend role that Russell was glorified for playing.
And that's exactly how Walton played, only with greater scoring skill than either Unseld or Russell.
As a sophomore in college, he was compared to both Rust and Chamberlain.
As a junior, he authored arguably the greatest single game performance in NCAA history, going 21 of 22 from the floor en route to 44 points.
And his 60th win in 60 college games up until that point—not too shabby.
The grainy signs of his offensive repertoire were on display: the bank shot, his activity, dexterity, and of course the passing.

Like most players, Walton probably peaked as a passer later in his career.
Especially with slightly more space to work with in the 1980s.
Back in 77 and 78, at the height of his overall powers, his passing was defined by hitting swirling cutters from the mid and high post.
Some of these were like water polo passes, just flipping the ball over heads in really tight quarters.
But the defining characteristic of these passes was speed and accuracy.
Older centers could occasionally throw flashier passes than Walton from these cornerstone spots.
But Walton's volume and efficiency was unmatched until that point in time.
Note his little hop to create a better delivery angle over the top.
Portland's half-court game was largely built off cutters buzzing around Walton like this.
He has multiple options here if there's any opening.
And his speed-accuracy combination resembles a modern quarterback throwing tight short yardage completions.

Today, we might just see a crowded lane where everyone's covered.
But Walton sees a pass behind the hoop, the only window to thread this needle through.
Compare that to another Blazer big, Lloyd Neal, who misses a Walton special, only to have Big Red show him how it's done.
Walton's vision stems from reading the game so well at the team level.
Knowing who's supposed to go where and what options are available.
With the overplay on the pass, he leads the cutter into space.
And again, what accuracy on the release.
Walton's also known for his outlet passing.
And he mostly flung these toward midcourt after ripping down a rebound.
It was almost like a single motion: grabbing and firing to start Portland's vaunted fast break.

But he wasn't throwing touchdowns on these like some of the other great outlet passers of that era already were.
And in the limited game footage in public, the one he tried got away from him a bit.
His more notable weakness to me is passing on the move.
His handle wasn't really functional.
And that meant that his half-court passing was largely stationary, limited to whatever outpost he caught the ball from.
Of course, most big men at the time couldn't pass on the move.
Nor was the game conducive to them running pick and roll.
So relative to his time, Walton was certainly among the best passing bigs to come along.
And perhaps the best ever at finding cutters.

All of Walton's missed games from injury give us insight into his value for Portland.
In games where Walton was the only missing rotational player, Portland assisted on 54% of its field goals in 1977 and 1978.
Add Walton in and that number jumped to nearly 58%.
His outlet passing had a similar effect on pace.
With Walton, the Blazers played at a slightly above-average pace for the time.
Without him, they averaged four fewer possessions a game.
Which would have made them one of the slower teams in the league.
The total effect on offense was that the Blazers were 3.7 points better than average with him, but only 1.2 points better without him.

That is still a solid offense without Big Bill.
Largely because his replacements were good scorers.
Tom Owens averaged 19 points per game and four assists in 1979.
And the aforementioned Lloyd Neal was a good scorer too.
Walton was a similar scorer to those two, at least statistically.
Going to that jump hook as a bread-and-butter move, he had nice touch on this.
And while it certainly wasn't the sky hook, that's for the next episode.
Bill could release this cleanly most of the time without too much of a setup.
It was a back-to-the-basket move, but it was also used at the end of a little face-up.
When headed right, he could also knock down mid-range jumpers, preferring to go glass on these whenever possible.
Big Red could walk into these but also liked a turnaround after a single dribble.
His range on these jumpers was maybe out to 17 or 18 feet.
Probably limited by that funky form that kept his free throw shooting around 70%.

At his peak, his scoring moves were decisive like this.
But he didn't possess an overwhelming scoring arsenal.
Adjusted for inflation to 2020 numbers, Walton averaged about 20 to 21 points per 75 possessions during this two-year peak.
And his scoring efficiency was four to five percentage points ahead of the league.
Interestingly, his scoring did slide a touch in his 19 playoff games.
Averaging closer to 17 points per 75 when adjusting for inflation.
With slightly lower efficiency than in the regular season.
During that 77 playoff run, Walton was the second-leading scorer on the team.
But only the fourth-leading scorer when adjusting for pace.
A testament to Portland's balanced attack built off of Walton's passing.

But the Blazers weren't a dominant playoff offense.
In part because of Bill's shortcoming as a scorer.
He also added value with his activity.
First as a cutter, knowing when to read this opening for a dive cut and lob.
This kind of off-ball play adds value around higher-end talent.
And it led to this vintage Blazer Mania sequence in the 1977 Finals against Philadelphia.
Walton was always looking for little soft spots in the defense.
Finding offensive rebounding opportunities and high-percentage second chance points that cleaned up for his teammates.
He wasn't a skywalker.
But his size and quick leaping allowed him to finish plays around the rim.
And score off of rebounds, boosting his scoring numbers a bit in the process.

With these high-percentage follow-ups, by the way, Walton was huge.
His height is debated, but he wasn't much smaller than Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who stood 7-2 without shoes.
And here he is next to Robert Parish, listed at 7-1, and Kevin McHale, listed at 6-10.
That size contributed to his crippling injuries.
As his feet weren't anatomically capable of supporting his big frame.
And the shock of all that running and jumping caused Walton to miss three full seasons before ramping his career back up in 1983 in San Diego.
Again, he's not dwarfed by Kareem here at all.
But boy, did that size and mobility help him protect the paint.

Walton's massive impact on the game—his very inclusion in this series—is primarily because of his defensive value.
Value created with his length, awareness, and motor.
Most seven-footers aren't super active and able to read the game.
But back before the three-point line, this was arguably the most valuable trait in the entire sport.
We'll see why in a moment.
Filming Birds of Prey is not for those who have a fear of heights.
I graduated from the practice tree to the 200-foot monster to bring her up.
Beautiful to fly and hold the eagle was a landmark of my life.
He was a classic paint protector.
And because of the rules back then, he almost served like a goaltender patrolling the area in front of the hoop and challenging all comers.

The dangerous Doug Collins runs into a wall here.
Or, I guess, a wall tin.
There's a good joke in there somewhere.
But Bill was always really well-positioned.
He sagged off players without the ball in textbook fashion.
But was ready to pounce in these spots.
He was one of the most active big defenders in league history.
Helping when needed or stepping out in challenging shots in the mid-range.
Ambushing Pete Maravich, who thought he was in the clear.
You'll notice his hands are always out, clogging passing lanes.
So teams don't sneak those dimes through to cutters like the Blazers did.
And his hands were active, targeting the ball.
Deflecting this jump pass like great rim protectors.
He was accurate, jabbing at the basketball, and would pull his hand away to avoid fouling at times.

Bill's quick bunny hop couldn't get him over the top of the square like some of the great modern shot blockers.
And this meant that occasionally strong athletes or crafty finishers could slip one through here.
He slides down in position but mistimes his jump, and that throws off the contest a bit.
But his typical reactions were quick.
And with sound position, he bothered so many shots.
He wasn't a stiff either, comfortably chasing wings outside the paint to harass their jumpers.
Remember, back then, bigs couldn't really be exposed on an island against quicker players.
Because they didn't have to chase out to the three-point line.

The game in those days was built more around the post-up, with offenses running through the center.
Unlike Walton, most high-end big men were looking to score more than pass.
And that created even more defensive responsibility for the bigs of that era.
In the 1977 Western Conference Finals, Walton famously battled Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for four games.
Trying his best to sit on Kareem's lethal skyhook and force him left, with mixed results.
That's better than most against Jabbar.
And Walton's size and acumen helped slow Kareem a bit compared to normal centers.
Here, he tracks him well without the ball.
Happily forcing Jabbar left, but sometimes there's no stopping Kareem.

Walton also stayed active, working for better defensive position.
Here, leading to a steal.
Against more mortal figures, his man defense was highly effective.
Banging and then going vertical against Daryl Dawkins in the 77 Finals.
Squint a bit and you'll see Hall of Famer Dan Issel, more of a shooting center, get stuffed by Walton on this jumper.
And Bill was always using his size and positioning to defend opponents like this.
He was the original big fundamental, taking a textbook approach to activity, positioning, vertical contests, and so on.
We can see the effect his man defense had on opponents during this 1977–78 stretch.

By looking at the 48 games he played against other All-Star centers—for instance, Kareem averaged 25.9 points per 36 minutes on 61% true shooting against everyone else.
But in eight games against Walton, averaged 24.5 on 57% true shooting.
If we do this for the other seven All-Star centers during these years, only Big Bob Lanier and another southpaw, Dave Cowans, avoid a pretty clear drop-off against Walton.
Now, team factors influence data like this.
But numbers like these crystallize the effect of a superstar defender.

In total, these All-Stars scored nearly two fewer points per 36 on four percent worse true shooting against Walton.
An effect that compares favorably to all but the all-time great post defenders in many ways.
Portland was built around Walton on both ends.
Their guards could be more aggressive, pressuring the ball with Big Bill behind them.
While Portland didn't need another paint protector out there to take away from its speed and skill game on offense.

If we go back to those games Walton missed, we can see how insanely valuable his defense was.
The Blazers gave up about 103 points per 100 in the 26 games with just Walton missing.
But only 95.6 with him in the lineup.
A jump from the third-worst defense in the league to the very best defense in the league.
This is likely beyond the offensive impact of any player in the first 30 years of the league.
Perhaps save for Oscar Robertson or Jerry West.

Overall, the Blazers were actually outscored in those two seasons without Walton.
They had a negative adjusted point differential, equivalent to a 37-win team.
But with him, they had a plus eight and a half point differential, a 64-win pace.
Among players to miss at least 20 games over a single or multi-year period, that nearly 10-point increase with Walton is the second largest in the first 70 years of the NBA.
And that came in an era of parity, where winning 55 games was rare.
Only Nate Thurmond, another defensive stud, was associated with a larger increase.
But his team was far worse than those Blazers, who went a stunning 87–28 in those games with Big Bill, and just 10–16 without him.

Again, most of that value was defensive.
So fittingly, it was the Blazers defense that shined in 19 playoff games.
Holding opponents nearly five and a half points below their regular season scoring efficiencies.
In those two seasons, Walton and company also played eight games without their only other All-Star, Maurice Lucas.
And in those eight games, the Blazers went 8–0.

These indicators, with players moving in and out of the lineup, do still have some noise.
We can't say for certain Walton was worth nine and a half points.
But 26 games is enough to know that he was likely worth at least, say, six points to those Blazers.
And that's a historically huge number.
Combine that with other factors like Lucas's missed time, the playoff performance, and what we can see on film.
And it's clear Walton was the linchpin of a budding dynasty.

In 1979, with Michael Thompson, Clay's dad, replacing Walton in the starting lineup and some minor bench changes, the Blazers reverted back to playing just over 500 basketball.
Reinforcing Bill's massive impact.
I think it's fair to look at their team construction and think that there isn't another center in league history who could have maximized that fit as well as the big redhead.
Our best impact metrics that reach back in time view Walton as having, say, a top 40 peak in playoff history.
His two-year regular season numbers were similar, by the way.
And these metrics respect his defense, likely reflecting how excellent his fit in Portland was.
But even in a less optimal situation, they still suggest that he belongs in this kind of conversation.
And given how well his defense and his passing would travel to other teams, I don't think there are 10 centers in NBA history who peaked higher than Bill Walton.